"""LONDON, NOVEMBER, 1888"""										
CIPHER SOLUTION										
“I HAD STOOD STILL A MOMENT TOO LONG.”										
Heavy footsteps sounded behind me.										
"""I leapt forward to flee, but it was too late. The footfalls rushed upon me. An iron grip grasped my arm. I started to scream, but a steely hand clamped over my mouth. Very close to my ear a deep voice growled, “If you move or cry out, I will kill you.”"""										
"""Terror froze me. Wide-eyed, staring into darkness, I couldn’t move. I could barely breathe. As I stood gasping, his grip left my arm and snaked around me, clasping both arms forcibly to my sides, pressing my back against a surface that might as well have been a stone wall had I not known it to be his chest. His hand left my mouth, but within an instant, before my trembling lips could shape a sound, in the dim night I saw the glint of steel. Long. Tapering to a point like a shard of ice. A knife blade."""										
"IN THE EAST END OF LONDON ""AFTER DARK, AUGUST, 1888"""										
THE ONLY LIGHT STRUGGLES FROM THE FEW										
"""gas street-lamps that remain unbroken, and from pots of fire suspended above the cobblestones, tended by old men selling boiled sea snails outside the public houses. The stranger, all dressed in black from her  hat to her boots, slips from shadow to shadow as if she were no more than a shadow herself, unnoticed. Where she comes from, it is unthinkable for  a female to venture out at night without the escort of a husband, father, or brother. But she will do whatever she must in order to search for the one who is lost."""										
"""Wide-eyed beneath her black veil, she scans, seeks, watches as she walks. She sees broken glass on the cracked pavements. She sees rats boldly walking about, trailing their disgusting hairless tails. She sees ragged children running barefoot amid the rats and the broken glass. She sees couples, men in red flannel vests and women in cheap straw bonnets, reeling along arm in arm. She sees someone lying along a wall, drunk or asleep amid the rats or maybe even dead."""										
"""Looking, she also listens. Somewhere a hurdygurdy spews a jingle into  the sooty air. The black-veiled seeker hears that tipsy music. She hears  a little girl calling, “Daddy? Da?” outside the door of a pub. She hears screams, laughter, drunken cries, street vendors calling, “Oysters! Sauce ’em in winegar and swaller ’em whole, fat ’uns four fer a penny!”"""										
"""She smells the vinegar. She smells gin, boiled cabbage, and hot sausage, the salty waft of the nearby harbour, and the stench of the river Thames. She smells rotting fish. She smells raw sewage."""										
"""She quickens her pace. She must keep moving, for not only is she a seeker, but she is sought. The black- veiled hunter is hunted. She must walk far so that the men who are pursuing her cannot find her."""										
"""At the next street-lamp, she sees a woman with painted lips and smudged eyes waiting in a doorway."""										
"""A hansom cab drives up, stops, and a man in a tail"""										
"""coat and a shining silk top-hat gets out. Even though the woman in the doorway wears a low-cut evening gown that might once have belonged to a lady of the gentleman’s social class, the black-clad watcher does not think the gentleman is here to go dancing. She sees the prostitute’s haggard eyes, haunted with fear no matter how much her red-smeared lips smile. One like her was recently found dead a few streets away, slit wide open. Averting her gaze, the searcher in black walks on."""										
"""An unshaven man lounging against a wall winks at her. “Missus, what yer doing all alone? Don’t yer want some company?” If he were a gentleman, he would not have spoken to her without being introduced. Ignoring him,"										
she hastens past. She must speak to no one. She does not belong here. The										
"knowledge does not trouble her, for she has never belonged anywhere. And in a sense she has always been alone. But her heart is not without pain as she scans the shadows, for she has no home now, she is a stranger in the world’s largest city, and she does not know where she will lay her head tonight."""										
"""And if, Lord willing, she lives until morning, she can only hope to find the loved one for whom she is searching."""										
"""Deeper and deeper into shadows and East London dockside slums, she walks on. Alone."""										
CHAPTER THE FIRST										
I WOULD VERY MUCH LIKE TO KNOW WHY my										
"""mother named me “Enola,” which, backwards, spells alone. Mum was, or perhaps still is, fond of ciphers, and she must have had something in mind, whether foreboding or a sort of left-handed blessing or, already, plans, even though my father had not yet passed away."""										
"""In any event, “You will do very well on your own, Enola,” she would tell me nearly every day as I was growing up. Indeed, this was her usual absent-minded farewell as she went off with sketch-book, brushes, and watercolours to roam the countryside. And indeed, alone was very much how she left me when, on the July evening of my fourteenth birthday, she neglected to return to Ferndell Hall, our home."""										
"""As I had my celebration anyway, with Lane the butler and his wife the cook, the absence of my mother did not at first trouble me. Although cordial enough when we met, Mum and I seldom interfered in one another’s concerns. I assumed that some urgent business kept her elsewhere, especially as she had instructed Mrs. Lane to give me certain parcels at tea- time."""										
"Mum’s gifts to me consisted of ""a drawing kit: paper,"""										
"""lead pencils, a penknife for sharpening them, and India-rubber erasers, all cleverly arranged in a flat wooden box that opened into an easel;""     ""a stout book entitled The Meanings of Flowers: Including Also Notes Upon the Messages Conveyed by Fans, Handkerchiefs, Sealing-Wax, and Postage- Stamps;"""										
a much smaller booklet of ciphers.										
"""While I could draw only to a limited degree, Mother"""										
"""encouraged the small knack I had. She knew I enjoyed my sketching, as I enjoyed reading almost any book, on whatever topic—but as for ciphers, she knew I did not much care for them. Nevertheless, she had made this little book for me with her own hands, as I could plainly see, folding and stitching together pages she had decorated with dainty watercolour flowers."""										
"""Obviously she had been at work on this gift for some time. She did not lack thought for me, I told myself. Firmly. Several times throughout the evening."""										
"""While I had no idea where Mum might be, I expected she would either come home or send a message during the night. I slept peacefully enough."""										
"""However, the next morning, Lane shook his head. No, the lady of the house had not returned. No, there had been no word from her."" ""Outside, grey rain fell, fitting my mood, which grew more and more uneasy."""										
"""After breakfast, I trotted back upstairs to my bedroom, a pleasant refuge where the wardrobe, washstand, dresser, and so forth were painted white with pink-and-blue stencilled posies around the edges. “Cottage furniture,” folk called it, cheap stuff suitable only for a child, but I liked it. Most days."""										
Not today.										
"""I could not have stayed indoors; indeed, I could not sit down except"										
"hastily, to pull galoshes over my boots. I wore shirt and  knickerbockers, comfortable clothing that had previously belonged to my older brothers, and over these I threw a waterproof. All rubbery, I thumped downstairs and took an umbrella from the stand in the hallway. Then I exited through the kitchen, telling Mrs. Lane, “I am going to have a look around.”"""										
"""Odd; these were the same words I said nearly every day when I went out to—look for things, though generally I didn’t know what. Anything. I would climb"""										
trees just to see what might be there: snail shells with										
"""bands of maroon and yellow, nut clusters, birds’ nests. And if I found a magpie’s nest, I would look for things in it: shoe buttons, bits of shiny ribbon, somebody’s lost earring. I would pretend that something of great value was lost, and I was searching—"""										
Only this time I was not pretending.										
"""Mrs. Lane, too, knew it was different this time. She should have called, “Where’s your hat, Miss Enola?” for I never wore one. But she said  nothing as she watched me go."""										
Go to have a look around for my mother. I really thought I could find her myself.										
"""Once out of sight of the kitchen, I began running back and forth like a beagle, hunting for any sign of Mum. Yesterday morning, as a birthday treat, I had been allowed to lie abed; therefore I had not seen my mother go out. But assuming that she had, as usual, spent some hours drawing studies of flowers and plants, I looked for her first on the grounds of Ferndell."""										
"""Managing her estate, Mum liked to let growing things alone. I rambled through flower gardens run wild, lawns invaded by gorse and brambles, forest shrouded in grape and ivy vines. And all the while the grey sky wept rain on me."""										
"""The old collie dog, Reginald, trotted along with me until he grew tired of getting wet, then left to find shelter. Sensible creature. Soaked to my knees, I knew I should do likewise, but I could not. My anxiety had accelerated, along with my gait, until now terror drove me like a lash. Terror that my mother lay out here somewhere, hurt or sick or—a fear I could not entirely deny, as Mum was far from young—she might have been struck down by heart failure. She might be"""										
—but one could not even think it so baldly; there were other words. Expired. Crossed over. Passed away. Gone to join my father.										
No. Please.										
"""One would think that, as Mother and I were not “close,” I should not have minded her disappearance very much. But quite the contrary; I felt dreadful, because it seemed all my fault if anything had gone"""										
"badly  with  her.  Always  I  felt   to  blame  for—for    ""whatever, for breathing—because I had been born indecently late in Mother’s life, a scandal, a burden, you see. And always I had counted  upon setting things right after I was grown. Someday, I hoped, somehow, I would make of my life a shining light that would lift me out of the  shadow of disgrace."""										
"""And then, you understand, my mother would love me."" So she had to be alive. And I must find her."										
"""Searching, I crisscrossed forest where generations of squires had hunted hares and grouse; I climbed down and up the shelving, fern-draped rock of the grotto for which the estate was named—a place I loved, but today I did not linger. I continued to the edge of the park, where the woods  ended and the farmland began."""										
"""And I searched onward into the fields, for Mum may very well have gone there, for the sake of the flowers. Being not too far from the city, Ferndell tenants had taken to farming bluebells and pansies and lilies"										
"instead of vegetables, as they could better prosper by delivering fresh"										
"blossoms daily to Covent Garden. Here grew rows of roses, crops of coreopsis, flaming patches of zinnias and poppies, all for London.  Looking on the fields of flowers, I dreamt of a bright city where every day smiling maids placed fresh bouquets in every chamber of the mansions, where every evening gentlewomen and royal ladies decked and scented themselves, their hair and gowns, with anemones and violets. London, where—"""										
"""But today the acres of flowers hung sodden with rain, and my dreams of London lasted only a breath or two before evaporating like the mist steaming up from the fields. Vast fields. Miles of fields."""										
Where was Mother?										
"""In my dreams, you see—my Mum dreams, not the London ones—I would find her myself, I would be a heroine, she would gaze up at me in gratitude and adoration when I rescued her."""										
But those were dreams and I was a fool.										
"""So far I had searched only a quarter of the estate,"""										
"""much less the farmlands. If Mum lay injured, she’d give up the ghost before I could find her all by myself."""										
"""Turning, I hurried back to the hall."""										
"""There, Lane and Mrs. Lane swooped upon me like a pair of turtledoves  upon the nest, he plucking sopping coat and umbrella and boots from me, she hustling me towards the kitchen to get warm. While it was not her place to scold me, she made her views plain. “A person would have to be simpleminded to stay out in the rain for hours on end,” she told the big coal-burning stove as she levered one of its lids off. “Don’t matter whether a person is common or aristocrat, if a person catches a chill, it could kill her.” This to the teakettle she was placing on the stove. “Consumption is no respecter of persons or circumstances.” To the tea canister. There was no need for me to respond, for she wasn’t talking to me. She would not have been permitted to say anything of the sort to me. “It’s all very well for a person to be of an independent mind without going looking for quinsy or pleurisy or pneumonia or worse.” To the teacups. Then she turned to face me, and her tone also about- faced. “Begging your pardon, Miss Enola, will you take luncheon? Won’t you  draw your chair closer to the stove?”"""										
"""“I’ll brown like toast if I do. No, I do not require luncheon. Has there been any word of Mother?” Although I already knew the answer—for Lane or Mrs. Lane would have told me at once if they had heard anything— still, I could not help asking."""										
"""“Nothing, miss.” She swaddled her hands in her apron as if wrapping a baby."""										
"""I stood. “Then there are some notes I must write.” “Miss Enola, there’s no fire in the library. Let me"""										
"""bring the things to you here at the table, miss.”"""										
"""I felt just as glad not to have to sit in the great leather chair in that gloomy room. Into the warm kitchen Mrs. Lane fetched paper imprinted with our family crest, the ink pot and the fountain pen from the library desk, along with some blotting paper."""										
"""Dipping the pen into the ink, on the cream-coloured stationery  I wrote  a  few  words  to  the  local"""										
"""constabulary, informing them that my mother seemed"""										
to have gone astray and requesting them to kindly organise a search for her.										
"""Then I sat thinking: Did I really have to? Unfortunately, yes. I could put it off no longer."""										
"""More slowly I wrote another note, one that would soon wing for miles via wire to be printed out by a teletype machine as:"""										
LADY       EUDORIA VERNET   HOLMES										
MISSING SINCE YESTERDAY STOP PLEASE ADVISE STOP ENOLA HOLMES										
"""I directed this wire to Mycroft Holmes, of Pall Mall, in London."""										
"""And also, the same message, to Sherlock Holmes, of Baker Street, also in London."""										
My brothers. CHAPTER THE SECOND										
AFTER SIPPING THE TEA URGED UPON ME by										
"""Mrs. Lane,  I changed  to  dry knickerbockers  and started off to deliver my notes to the village."""										
"""“But the rain—the wet—Dick will take them,” Mrs. Lane offered, wringing her hands in her apron again."""										
"""Her grown son, she meant, who did odd jobs around the estate, while Reginald, the somewhat more intelligent collie dog, supervised him.  Rather than tell Mrs. Lane I did not trust Dick with this important errand, I said, “I shall make some inquiries while I’m there. I will take the bicycle.”"""										
"""This was not some old high-wheeled bone-shaker, but an up-to-date"										
"“dwarf” bicycle with pneumatic tyres, perfectly safe."""										
"""Pedalling through the drizzle, I stopped for a moment at the lodge— Ferndell is small for a hall, really only a stone house with its chest puffed out, so to speak, but it needs must have a drive, a gate, and therefore a lodge."""										
"""“Cooper,” I asked the lodge-keeper, “would you open the gate for me? And by the way, do you happen to recall opening it for my mother yesterday?”"""										
"""To which, not quite masking his astonishment at such a question, he replied in the negative. At no time had Lady Eudoria Holmes passed this way."""										
"""After he had let me out, I pedalled the short distance to Kineford village."""										
"""At the post office I sent my telegrams. Then I left off my note at the constabulary, and spoke with the officer, before I began my rounds. I stopped at the vicarage, the greengrocer’s, the bakery, the confectionery, the butcher’s shop, the fishmonger’s, and so forth, inquiring after my mother as discreetly as I could. No one had seen her. The vicar’s wife, among others, raised  her eyebrows at me. I supposed it was because of my knickerbockers. For public cycling, you see, I should have been wearing “rationals”—bloomers covered by a waterproof skirt— or indeed any kind of skirt long enough to conceal my"""										
ankles. I knew my mother was criticised for failing										
"""properly to drape vulgar surfaces  such as coal scuttles, the back of her piano, and me."""										
Shocking child that I was.										
"""I never questioned my disgrace, for to do so would have been to broach matters of which a “nice” girl must remain ignorant. I had observed, however, that most married women disappeared into the house every year or two, emerging several months later with a new child, to the number of perhaps a dozen, until they either ceased or expired. My mother, by comparison, had produced only my two much older brothers. Somehow this prior restraint made my late arrival all the more shameful for a  gentleman Rationalist logician and his well-bred artistic wife."""										
"""The eyebrow-raisers bent their heads together and whispered as I pedalled around Kineford again, this time inquiring at the inn, the smithy, the tobacconist’s, and the public house, places where “nice” females seldom set foot."""										
I learned nothing.										
"""And despite my best smiles and by-the-way manner, I could almost hear a crescendo of excited gossip, conjecture, and rumour rising behind me as I returned to Ferndell Hall in an unhappy state of mind."""										
"""“No one has seen her,” I answered Mrs. Lane’s mute, questioning glance,"										
"“or has any idea where she might be.”"""										
"""Again waving aside her offers of luncheon— although now it was nearly tea-time—I trudged upstairs to my mother’s suite of rooms and stood outside the hallway door, considering. Mum kept her door locked. To spare Mrs. Lane the trouble, supposedly—for Lane and Mrs. Lane were the only house-servants—Mum cleaned her rooms herself. She hardly ever allowed anyone to enter, but under the circumstances . . ."""										
I decided to go ahead.										
"""Laying my hand upon the doorknob, I fully expected I would have to hunt up Lane to get the key."""										
"But the knob turned in my grasp. The door opened. ""And I knew in that moment, if I had not known"" ""before, that everything had changed."""										
Looking about me in the hush of my mother’s sitting										
"""room, I felt rather more worshipful than if I were in a chapel. I had read Father’s logic books, you see, and Malthus, and Darwin; like my parents I held rational and scientific views—but being in Mum’s room made me feel as if I wanted to believe. In something. The soul, perhaps, or  the spirit."""										
"""Mum had made this room a sanctuary of the artistic spirit. Panels of Japanese lotus-patterned silk dressed the windows, drawn back to let in the light upon slender furnishings of maple wood carved to resemble bamboo, very different from the hulking dark mahogany in the parlour."										
"Down there all the wood was varnished, heavy serge draped the windows,  and from the walls stared grim oil portraits of ancestors, but here in my mother’s domain the wood had been painted white, and on pastel walls hung a hundred delicate watercolours: Mum’s airy, lovingly detailed renditions of flowers, each picture no larger than a sheet of writing paper, lightly framed."""										
"""For a moment I felt as if Mum were here in this room, had been here all the time."""										
Would that it were so.										
"""Softly, as if I might disturb her, I tiptoed into the next room, her studio: a plain room with bare windows for the sake of light and a bare oak floor for the sake of cleaning. Scanning the easel, the tilted art table, the shelves of paper and supplies, I caught sight of a wooden box and frowned."""										
"""Wherever Mum had gone, she had not taken her watercolour kit with her."" But I had assumed—"										
"""How very stupid of me. I should have looked here first. She had not gone out to study flowers at all. She had gone—somewhere, some why, I simply did not know, and how had I ever thought I could find her myself? I was stupid, stupid, stupid."""										
"""My steps heavy now, I walked through the next door, into Mum’s bedroom."" ""And halted, astonished, for several reasons. First"""										
"""and foremost the state of Mum’s shining, modern brass bed: unmade. Every morning of my life, Mum had seen to it that I made my bed and tidied my room immediately after breakfast; surely she would not leave her own bed with linens thrown back and pillows askew and eiderdown comforter sliding onto the Persian carpet?"""										
"""Moreover, her clothes had not been properly put away. Her brown tweed walking suit had been most carelessly thrown over the top of the standing mirror."""										
"""But if not her customary walking outfit—with its skirt that could be drawn up by strings so that only petticoats need get wet or soiled, yet let down at a moment’s notice should a male appear on the horizon""    ""—if not this very practical, up-to-date garment for the country, then what had she worn?"""										
"""Parting the velvet drapes to admit light from the windows, I threw open"										
"the wardrobe doors, then stood trying to make sense of the jumble of clothing inside: wool, worsted, muslin, and cotton but also damask, silk, tulle, and velvet. Mum was, you see, very much a free thinker, a woman of character, a proponent of female suffrage and dress reform, including the soft, loose, Aesthetic gowns advocated by Ruskin—but also, whether she liked it or not, she was a squire’s widow, with certain obligations. So there were walking costumes and “rationals” but also formal visiting dresses, a low-necked dinner dress, an opera cloak, and a ball gown—the same rusty-purple one Mum had worn for years; she did not care whether  she was in fashion. Nor did she throw anything away. There were the black “widow’s weeds” she had worn for a year after my father’s demise. There was a bronze-green habit left over from her fox-hunting days. There was her grey caped pavement-sweeping suit for city wear. There were fur mantles, quilted satin jackets, paisley skirts, blouses upon blouses . ."										
". I could not make out what garments might be missing from that bewilderment of mauve, maroon, grey-blue, lavender, olive, black, amber, and brown."""										
"""Closing the wardrobe doors, I stood puzzled, looking about me."" ""The entire room was in disarray. The two halves, or"""										
"""“stays,” of a corset, along with other unmentionables,"""										
"""lay in plain sight on the marble-topped washstand, and upon the dresser sat a peculiar object like a cushion, but all of a pouf, made of coils and clouds of white horsehair. I lifted this odd thing, rather springy to the touch, and making no sense of it, I carried it along with me on my  way out of my mother’s rooms."""										
"""In the downstairs hallway I encountered Lane polishing the woodwork. Showing him my find, I asked him, “Lane, what is this?”"""										
"""As a butler, he did his very best to remain expressionless, but he stammered slightly as he replied, “That is, um, ah, a dress improver, Miss Enola.”"""										
Dress improver?										
"""But not for the front, surely. Therefore, it must be for the rear."" Oh."										
"""I held in my hands, in a public room of the hall, in the presence of a male, the unwhisperable that hid inside a gentlewoman’s bustle, supporting its folds and draperies."""										
"""“I beg your pardon!” I exclaimed, feeling the heat of a blush rise in my face. “I had no idea.” Never having worn a bustle, I had not seen such an item before. “A thousand apologies.” But an urgent thought conquered my embarrassment. “Lane,” I asked, “in what manner was my mother dressed  when she left the house yesterday morning?”"""										
"""“It’s difficult to recall, miss.”"""										
"""“Was she carrying any sort of baggage or parcel?” “No, indeed, miss.”"""										
“Not even a reticule or hand-bag?”										
"""“No, miss.” Mother seldom carried anything of the sort. “I think I would have noticed if she were.”"""										
"""“Was she by chance wearing a costume with a, um"""										
. . .” The word bustle would be indelicate when speaking to a male. “With a train? With tournure?”										
"""Very unlike her, if so."""										
"""But  with  memory   dawning  in  his  eyes,  Lane"" ""nodded. “I cannot bring to mind her exact apparel,"""										
"""Miss Enola, but I do recall she wore her Turkey-back jacket.”"" The kind of jacket that would accommodate a bustle."										
“And her high-crowned grey hat.”										
"""I knew that hat. Meant to be military in appearance, resembling an upside-down flowerpot, it was sometimes, by the vulgar, called three- storeys-and-a- basement."""										
“And she carried her walking umbrella.”										
"""A long black implement meant to be used like a cane, as sturdy as a"										
"gentleman’s stick."""										
"""How odd that my mother should go out with a mannish umbrella, a mannish hat, yet swishing that most flirtatious feminine tail, a bustle.""  CHAPTER THE THIRD"										
"""JUST BEFORE DINNERTIME, A BOY BROUGHT a"""										
reply from my brothers: ARRIVING      FIRST										
MORNING TRAIN CHAUCERLEA STOP PLEASE MEET AT STATION STOP M & S HOLMES										
"""Chaucerlea, the nearest town with a railway station, lay ten miles beyond Kineford."""										
"""In order to meet the early train, I would have to set off at dawn."""										
"""In preparation, that evening I bathed—quite a bother, dragging the metal tub out from under the bed and placing it before the hearth, hauling buckets of water upstairs and then teakettles of boiling water to pour in for warmth. Mrs. Lane was of no help, for— even though it was summertime— she needs must build a fire in my bedchamber, all the while declaring to the kindling, the coals, and finally the flames that no sane person would bathe on such a damp day. I wanted to wash my hair, also, but I could  not do so without Mrs. Lane’s assistance, and she developed a sudden rheumatism in her arms while declaring to the towels she was heating, “It’s no more than three weeks since the last time, and the weather not nearly warm enough.”"""										
"""I bundled into bed directly after my bath, and Mrs. Lane, still muttering, placed hot water bottles at my feet."""										
"""In the morning I brushed my hair a full one hundred strokes, trying to render it glossy, then tied it back with a white ribbon to match my frock—girls of the upper classes must wear white, you know, to show  every fleck of dirt. I wore my newest, least soiled frock, with very nice white lace pantalets below, and the traditional black stockings with black boots, freshly polished by Lane."""										
After so much dressing at such an early hour I had										
no time for breakfast. Snatching a shawl from the rack										
"""in the hallway—for it was a very chilly morning—I set off on the bicycle, pedalling hard in order to be on time."""										
"""Cycling, I have found, allows one to think without fear of one’s facial expressions being observed."""										
"""It was a relief, yet hardly a comfort, to think about recent events as I sped through Kineford and turned onto the Chaucerlea Way."""										
I wondered what in the world had happened to my mother.										
"""Trying not to dwell on that, I wondered whether I would have difficulty finding the railway station, and my brothers."""										
"""I wondered why on earth Mum had named my brothers “Mycroft” and “Sherlock.” Backwards, their names spelled Tforcym and Kcolrehs."" I wondered whether Mum was all right."										
Think instead about Mycroft and Sherlock.										
"""I wondered whether I would recognise them at the train station. I had  not seen them since I was four years old, at Father’s funeral; all I remembered of them was that they had seemed very tall in their top- hats draped in black crepe, and severe in their black frock coats, their black gloves, their black armbands, their gleaming black patent leather boots."" ""I wondered whether Father had really expired of mortification due to my existence, as the village children liked to tell me, or whether he had succumbed to fever and pleurisy as Mum said."""										
I wondered whether my brothers would recognise me after ten years.										
"""Why they had not visited Mother and me, and why we had not visited them, of course I knew: because of the disgrace I had brought upon my family by being born. My brothers could ill afford to associate with us. Mycroft  was a busy, influential man with a career in government service in  London, and my brother Sherlock was a famous detective with a book"										
"written about him, A Study in Scarlet, by his friend and fellow lodger,"										
"Dr. John Watson. Mum had bought a copy—"" Don’t think about Mum."										
"""—and we had both read it. Ever since, I had been dreaming of London, the great seaport, the seat of monarchy, the hub of high society, yet, according to Dr. Watson, “that great cesspool into which all the loungers and idlers of the Empire are irresistibly drained.” London, where men in white ties and women decked with diamonds attended the opera while, in  the streets, heartless cabbies drove horses to exhaustion, according to another favourite book of mine, Black Beauty. London, where scholars read in the British Museum and crowds thronged theatres to be Mesmerised."										
"London, where famous people held séances to communicate with the spirits of the dead, while other famous people tried to scientifically explain how a Spiritualist had levitated himself out of a window and into a waiting carriage."""										
"""London, where penniless boys wore rags and ran wild in the streets,  never going to school. London, where villains killed ladies of the night— I had no clear idea what these were—and took their babies in order to  sell them into slavery. In London there were royalty and cutthroats. In London there were master musicians, master artists, and master criminals who kidnapped children and forced them to labour in dens of iniquity. I had no clear idea what those were, either. But I knew that my brother Sherlock, sometimes employed by royalty, ventured into the dens of iniquity to match wits against thugs, thieves, and the princes of crime. My brother Sherlock was a hero."""										
"""I remembered Dr. Watson’s listing of my brother’s accomplishments: scholar, chemist, superb violinist, expert marksman, swordsman, singlestick fighter, pugilist, and brilliant deductive thinker.""  ""Then I formed a mental list of my own accomplishments: able to read,"										
"write, and do sums; find birds’ nests; dig worms and catch fish; and, oh yes, ride a bicycle."""										
"""The comparison being so dismal, I stopped thinking to devote my attention to the road, as I had reached the edge of Chaucerlea."""										
"The crowd in the cobbled streets daunted me somewhat. I had to wind my  way among persons and vehicles unknown in the dirt lanes of Kineford: men ""selling  fruit  from  barrows,  women  with  baskets"""										
"""peddling sweets, nannies pushing prams, too many pedestrians trying not to be run over by too many carts, coaches, and gigs, beer-wagons and coal- wagons and lumber-wagons, a carriage, even an omnibus pulled by no less than four horses. Amid all this, how was I to find the railway station?"""										
Wait. I saw something. Rising over the house-tops like an ostrich feather upon a lady’s hat stood a white plume in the grey sky. The smoke of a steam locomotive.										
"""Pedalling towards it, I soon heard a roaring, shrieking, clanging noise— the engine coming in. I arrived at the platform just as it did."""										
"""Only a few passengers got off, and among them I had no difficulty recognising two tall male Londoners who had to be my brothers. They wore gentlemen’s country attire: dark tweed suits with braid edging, soft ties, bowler hats. And kid gloves. Only gentry wore gloves at the height of summer. One of my brothers had grown a bit stout, showing an expanse of silk waistcoat. That would be Mycroft, I supposed, the older by seven years. The other—Sherlock—stood straight as a rake and lean as a greyhound in his charcoal suit and black boots."""										
"""Swinging their walking sticks, they turned their heads from side to side, looking for something, but their scrutiny passed right over me."" ""Meanwhile, everyone on the platform stole glances at them."""										
"""And to my annoyance, I found myself trembling as I hopped off my bicycle. A strip of lace from my pantalets, confounded flimsy things, caught on the chain, tore loose, and dangled over my left boot."""										
"""Trying to tuck it up, I dropped my shawl."""										
"""This would not do. Taking a deep breath, leaving my shawl on my bicycle and my bicycle leaning against the station wall, I straightened and approached the two Londoners, not quite succeeding in holding my head high."""										
"""“Mr. Holmes,” I asked, “and, um, Mr. Holmes?”"" Two pairs of sharp grey eyes fixed upon me. Two pairs of aristocratic brows lifted."										
"""I said, “You, um, you asked me to meet you here.” “Enola?” they both exclaimed at once, and then in rapid alternation:"""										
“What are you doing here? Why did you not send the carriage?”										
"""“We should have known her; she looks just like you, Sherlock.” The taller, leaner one was indeed Sherlock, then. I liked his bony face, his hawk eyes, his nose like a beak, but I sensed that for me to look like him was no compliment."""										
"“I thought she was a street urchin.” “On a bicycle?” ""“Why the bicycle? Where’s the carriage, Enola?”"""										
"""I blinked: Carriage? There were a landau and a phaeton gathering dust in the carriage house, but there had been no horses for many years, not  since my mother’s old hunter had gone on to greener pastures."""										
"""“I could have hired horses, I suppose,” I said slowly, “but I would not know how to harness or drive them.”"""										
"""The stout one, Mycroft, exclaimed, “Why are we paying a stable boy, then, and a groom?”"""										
“I beg your pardon?”										
“Are you telling me there are no horses?”										
"""“Later, Mycroft. You!” With commanding ease, Sherlock summoned a loitering lad. “Go hire us a brougham.” He tossed a coin to the boy, who touched his cap and ran off."""										
"""“We had better wait inside,” Mycroft said. “Out here in the wind, Enola’s hair more and more resembles a jackdaw’s nest. Where’s your hat, Enola?”"""										
"""By then, somehow, the moment had passed for me to say, “How do you do” or for them to say, “So nice to see you again, my dear” and shake hands, or something of that sort, even though I was the shame of the family. By then, also, I was beginning to realise that PLEASE MEET AT  STATION had been a request for transportation, not for me to present myself in person."""										
"""Well, if  they did not desire the  pleasure of my"" ""conversation, it was a good thing, as I stood mute and stupid."""										
"""“Or your gloves,” Sherlock chided, taking me by the arm and steering me towards the station, “or decent, decorous clothing of any sort? You’re a young lady now, Enola.”"""										
"That statement alarmed me into speech. “I’ve only just turned fourteen.” ""In puzzled, almost plaintive tones Mycroft murmured, “But I’ve been paying for the seamstress . ."""										
.”										
"""Speaking to me, Sherlock decreed in that offhand"""										
"""imperial way of his, “You should have been in long skirts since you were twelve. What ever was your mother thinking of? I suppose she’s gone over entirely to the Suffragists?”"""										
"""“I don’t know where she’s gone,” I said, and to my own surprise—for I had not wept until that moment—I burst into tears."""										
"""Further mention of Mum, then, was put off until we sat"""										
"""in the hired brougham, with my bicycle strapped on behind, swaying along towards Kineford. “We are a pair of thoughtless brutes,” Sherlock had observed to Mycroft at one point, while providing me with a large, very starchy handkerchief hardly comforting to the nose. I am sure they  thought I was weeping for my mum—as I was. But truthfully, I wept also  for myself."""										
Enola. Alone.										
"""Shoulder to shoulder on the seat opposite me, my brothers sat together, facing me yet looking at anything else. Plainly they found me an embarrassment."""										
"""I quieted my sniffling within a few minutes of leaving the railway station, but I could not think of anything to say. A brougham, being little more than a wheeled box with small windows, does not encourage conversation, even if I were inclined to point out the beauties of nature, which I most definitely was not."""										
"""“So, Enola,” asked Mycroft gruffly after a while, “are""  you  feeling  well   enough  to  tell  us  what  has happened?”"										
"""I did so, but there was little to add to what they already knew. Mum had left home early on Tuesday morning and had not returned since. No, she  had left me no message or explanation of any sort. No, there was no  reason to think she might have taken ill; her health was excellent. No, there had been no word of her from anyone. No, in answer to Sherlock’s questions, there had been no bloodstains, no footprints, no signs of forced entry, and I did not know of any strangers who had been lurking about. No, there had been no ransom demand. If Mum had any enemies, I did not know of them. Yes, I had notified the Kineford police constabulary."" ""“So I can see,” Sherlock remarked, leaning forward to peer out the  window of the brougham as we rolled into Ferndell Park, “for there they are, along with every loiterer in the village, prodding the bushes and peering about in the most ineffectual manner.”"""										
"""“Do they expect to find her sheltering under a hawthorn?” Grunting as his frontal amplitude got in his way, Mycroft leaned forward to look in his turn. His bushy eyebrows shot up under the brim of his hat. “What,” he cried, “has been done to the grounds?”"""										
"""Startled, I protested, “Nothing!”"""										
"""“Absolutely, nothing has been done, apparently for years! All is sorely overgrown—”"""										
"""“Interesting,” Sherlock murmured."""										
"""“Barbaric!” Mycroft retorted. “Grass a foot tall, saplings springing up, gorse, bramble bushes—”"""										
“Those are wild roses.” I liked them.										
"""“Growing on what should be the front lawn? How, pray tell, does the gardener earn his pay?”"""										
“Gardener? There is no gardener.”										
"""Mycroft turned on me like a hawk stooping. “But you do have a gardener! Ruggles, the man’s name is, and I have been paying him twelve shillings a week for the past ten years!”"""										
"""I daresay I sat with my mouth open, for several reasons. How could Mycroft be suffering under this"""										
absurd delusion that there was a gardener? I knew no										
"""one named Ruggles. Moreover, I had no idea that money came from Mycroft. I think I’d been assuming that money, like stair rails and chandeliers  and other furnishings, came with the hall."""										
"""Sherlock intervened. “Mycroft, if there were such a personage, I am sure Enola would be well aware of him.”"""										
“Bah. She wasn’t aware of—”										
"""Sherlock interrupted, although addressing his remark to me. “Enola, never mind. Mycroft gets quite out of humour when he is disrupted from his usual orbit between his rooms, his office, and the Diogenes Club.”"" ""Ignoring him, his brother leaned towards me, demanding, “Enola, are there really no horses, no groom, and no stable boy?”"""										
"""“No. I mean, yes.” Yes, there really were none. “Well, which is it, no or yes?”"""										
"""“Mycroft,” Sherlock intervened, “the girl’s head, you’ll observe, is rather small in proportion to her remarkably tall body. Let her alone."										
There is no use in confusing and upsetting her when you’ll find out for										
"yourself soon enough.”"""										
"""Indeed, at that moment the hired brougham pulled up in front of Ferndell Hall."""										
CHAPTER THE FOURTH										
ENTERING MY MOTHER’S ROOMS ALONG with my										
"""brothers, I noticed upon the tea table a Japanese vase with flowers in it, their petals going brown. Mum must have arranged that bouquet a day or two before she had gone missing."""										
I picked up the vase and hugged it to my chest. Sherlock Holmes swept past me. He had rebuffed										
"""Lane’s welcome, declined Mrs. Lane’s offer of a cup"""										
"""of tea, refused to pause even a moment before beginning his investigation. Glancing about my mother’s light, airy sitting room with its many watercolours of flowers, he then strode through the studio and onward into the bedchamber. There I heard him give a sharp exclamation."" ""“What is it?” called Mycroft, ambling in more slowly, having chatted a moment with Lane as he left his stick, hat, and gloves in the butler’s care."""										
"""“Deplorable!” cried Sherlock from the far room, referring, I assumed, to the mess in general and the unmentionables in particular. “Indecent!” Yes, definitely the unmentionables. Striding out of the bedroom, he reappeared in the studio. “She seems to have left in great haste.”"" ""Seems, I thought."""										
"""“Or perhaps she has become lax in her personal habits,” he added more calmly. “She is, after all, sixty- four years old.”"""										
"""The vase of flowers in my arms gave off an odour of stagnant water and decaying stems. When it was fresh, however, the bouquet must have smelled wonderful. The shrivelled blossoms, I saw, had been sweet  peas."""										
And thistles.										
“Sweet peas and thistles?” I exclaimed. “How odd.”										
"""Both men turned their eyes upon me with some exasperation. “Your mother was odd,” said Sherlock curtly."""										
"""“And still is, presumably,”  added  Mycroft more"" ""gently, for my benefit, judging by the warning glance"" he gave his brother."										
"""So they, too, feared she might be . . . deceased."""										
"""In the same sharp tone Sherlock said, “From the state of affairs here,  it appears she may now have progressed from oddness to senile dementia.”"" ""Hero or no hero, he—his manner—was beginning to annoy me. And distress me, for my mother was his mother, too; how could he be so cold?"""										
"""I did not know then, had no way of knowing, that Sherlock Holmes lived his life in a kind of chill shadow. He suffered from melancholia, the fits sometimes coming upon him so badly that for a week or more he would refuse to rise from his bed."""										
“Senility?” Mycroft asked. “Can you not arrive at any more helpful deduction?”										
“Such as?”										
“You’re the detective. Whip out that lens of yours. Detect.”										
"“I have already done so. There is nothing to be learned here.” ""“Outside, then?”"""										
“After a full day of rain? There will be no traces to tell which way she’s gone. Foolish woman.”										
"""Dismayed by his tone and this comment, I left, carrying the vase of withering flowers downstairs to the kitchen."""										
"""There I found Mrs. Lane crouched upon the floor with a scrub brush, scouring the oak boards so fiercely that I suspected she, also, was perturbed in her mind."""										
"""I dumped the contents of the Japanese vase into the wooden slop bucket,"										
"on top of vegetable parings and such."""										
"""On her hands and knees, Mrs. Lane told the floor, “Here I was so looking forward to seeing Mister Mycroft and Mister Sherlock again.”"""										
"""Setting the green-slimed vase in the lead-lined wooden sink, I ran water into it from the cistern tap."""										
"""Mrs. Lane spoke on, “And here it’s still the same"""										
"""old story, the same foolish quarrel, they’ve never a kind word for their own mother, and she maybe lying out there . . .”"""										
"""Her voice actually broke. I said nothing, so as not to further upset her."""										
"""Sniffing and scrubbing, Mrs. Lane declared, “Small wonder they’re bachelors. Must have everything their way. Think it’s their right. Never could abide a strong- minded woman.”"""										
"""A bell rang, one of a number of bells poised on coiled wires along the wall above the stove."""										
"""“There, now, that’s the morning room bell. I suppose that’s them wanting luncheon, and me up to my elbows in the dirt of this floor.”"""										
"""Having had no breakfast, I quite wanted luncheon myself. Also, I wanted to know what was going on. I left the kitchen and went to the morning room."""										
"""At that informal room’s small table sat Sherlock smoking a pipe and staring at Mycroft, who sat across from him."""										
"""“The two best thinkers in England ought to be able to reason this out,” Mycroft was saying. “Now, has Mother gone off voluntarily, or was she planning to return? The untidy state of her room—”"""										
"""“Could mean that she left impulsively and in haste, or it could reflect the innate untidiness of a woman’s mind,” interrupted Sherlock. “Of what use is reason when it comes to the dealings of a woman, and very likely one in her dotage?”"""										
"""Both of them glanced up at me as I entered the room, appearing hopeful that I might be a house- maid, although they should have known by now that there were none. “Luncheon?” Mycroft asked."""										
"""“Heaven knows,” I replied as I sat down at the table with them. “Mrs. Lane is in an uncertain frame of mind.”"""										
“Indeed.”										
"""I studied my tall, handsome (to me at least), brilliant brothers. I admired them. I wanted to like them. I wanted them to—"""										
"""Nonsense, Enola. You’ll do very well on your own."" ""As for my brothers, they paid me no further heed."""										
"""“I assure you, Mother is neither in her dotage, nor demented,” said Mycroft to Sherlock. “No senile woman could have compiled the accounts she has sent me over the past ten years, perfectly clear and orderly, detailing the expense of installing a bathroom"""										
—”										
"""“Which does not exist,” interrupted Sherlock in acid tones."""										
“—and water closet—” “Likewise.”										
"""“—and the constantly rising salaries of the foot- men, the housemaids, the kitchen maid, and the daily help—”"""										
“Nonexistent.”										
"""“—the gardener, the under-gardener, the odd man"""										
—”										
"""“Also nonexistent, unless one considers Dick.” “Who is quite odd,” Mycroft agreed. A joke, yet I"""										
"""saw no flicker of a smile on either of my brothers. “I’m surprised Mother did not list one Reginald Collie, who is arguably a servant, in her expenses. She listed imaginary horses and ponies, imaginary carriages, a coachman, grooms, stable boys—”"""										
“There is no denying that we have been woefully deceived.”										
"""“—and for Enola, a music teacher, a dancing instructor, a governess—”"""										
"""A startled look passed between them, as if a logic problem had suddenly"										
"grown a face and hair, and then both at once they turned to stare at me."" ""“Enola,” Sherlock demanded, “you have at least had a governess, haven’t you?”"""										
"""I had not. Mum had sent me to school with the village children, and after I had learned all I could there, she had told me I would do quite well on my own, and I considered that I had. I’d read every book in Ferndell Hall’s library, from A Child’s Garden of Verses to the entire Encyclopaedia Britannica."""										
"""As I hesitated, Mycroft restated the question: “You"" have had the proper education of a young lady?”"										
"""“I have read Shakespeare,” I replied, “and Aristotle, and Locke, and the novels of Thackeray, and the essays of Mary Wollstonecraft.”"""										
Their faces froze. I could scarcely have horrified them more if I had told them I had learned to perform on a circus trapeze.										
"""Then Sherlock turned to Mycroft and said softly, “It’s my fault. There’s no trusting a woman; why make an exception for one’s mother? I should  have come here to check upon her yearly at the very least, no matter how much unpleasantness would have ensued.”"""										
"""Mycroft said just as softly and sadly, “To the contrary, my dear Sherlock, it is I who have neglected my responsibility. I am the elder son—”"""										
"""A discreet cough sounded, and in came Lane with a tray of cucumber sandwiches, sliced fruit, and a pitcher of lemonade. There was blessed silence for a few moments until luncheon was served."""										
"""During that silence, I framed a question. “What has any of this,” I asked after Lane had withdrawn, “to do with finding Mother?”"""										
"""Rather than answering me, Mycroft gave his full attention to his plate."" ""Sherlock drummed his fingers, rumpling the starched lace tablecloth. “We are formulating  a theory,” he said at last."""										
“And what is this theory?” Silence again.										
"""I asked, “Am I to have my mother back again or not?”"""										
"""Neither of them would look at me, but after what seemed a long time, Sherlock glanced at his brother and said, “Mycroft, I think she has a right to know.”"""										
"""Mycroft sighed, nodded, put down what remained of his third sandwich, and faced me. “We are trying to decide,” he said, “whether what is happening now connects to what happened after Father’s dea—er, after our  father’s  passing  away.  You  wouldn’t"""										
"""remember, I suppose.”"""										
"""“I was four years old,” I said. “I remember mostly the black horses.”"" ""“Quite so. Well, after the burial, over the next few days there was disagreement—”"""										
"""“That’s putting it kindly,” Sherlock interposed. “The words ‘battle royal’ come to mind.”"""										
"""Ignoring him, Mycroft went on. “Disagreement as to the handling of the estate. Neither Sherlock nor I wanted to live here, so Mother thought that the rent money should come directly to her, and that she should run Ferndell Park.”"""										
"""Well, she did run it, didn’t she? Yet Mycroft sounded as if he considered the idea absurd."""										
"""“As I am the firstborn son, the estate is mine,” he went on,  “and Mother did not dispute that, but she could not seem to see why she should not manage things for me, rather than the other way around. When Sherlock and I reminded her that, legally, she had no right even to live here unless I permitted it, she became quite irrational and made it  clear that we were no longer welcome in our own birth-place.”"""										
"""Oh. My goodness. Everything seemed to turn upside down in my mind, as if it were swinging by its knees from a tree limb. All my life I had"										
assumed that my brothers kept their distance due to my shameful										
"existence, whereas they were saying—a quarrel with my mother?"""										
"I could not tell how Mycroft felt regarding this revelation. Or Sherlock. ""I could not quite tell how I felt about it, either, other than bewildered. But something secret fluttered like a butterfly in my heart."" ""“I sent her a monthly allowance,” Mycroft went on, “and she wrote me a very businesslike letter requesting an increase. I replied by asking for an accounting of how the money was being spent, and she complied. Her continuing requests for additional funds seemed so reasonable that I  never refused any of them. But, as we now know, her accounts were fictitious. What actually has become of all that money, we, um, we have  no idea.”"""										
"""I noticed his hesitation. “But you have a theory,” I"" said."										
"""“Yes.” He took a long breath. “We think she has been hoarding, while planning an escapade, all this time.” Another breath, even longer. “We think she has now taken what she perceives as her money and, um, gone somewhere to, ah, thumb her nose at us, so to speak.”"""										
What on earth was he saying? That Mum had abandoned me? I sat with my mouth ajar.										
"""“Pity the girl’s cranial capacity, Mycroft,” Sherlock murmured to his brother, and to me he said gently, “Enola, simply put, we think she has run away.”"""										
"""But—but that was preposterous, impossible. She wouldn’t have done that to me."""										
"""“No,” I blurted. “No, it can’t be.”"""										
"""“Think, Enola.” Sherlock sounded just like Mum. “All logic points to  that conclusion. If she were injured, the searchers would have found her, and if she were in an accident, we would have heard. There  is no  reason for anyone to harm her, and there are no signs of foul play. There is no reason for anyone to seize her against her will, other than  ransom, for  which there has been no demand.” He paused for a  significant breath before going on. “If, however, she is alive, in good health, and doing whatever she pleases—”"""										
"""“As usual,” Mycroft put in."""										
“Her disorderly bedroom could be the merest blind.”										
"""“To throw us off the track,” Mycroft agreed. “It certainly appears that she has been plotting and scheming for years—”"""										
"""I sat up straight like a steam whistle. “But if she could have left anytime,” I wailed, “why would she do it on my birthday?”"""										
Now it was their turn to sit with mouths slack and uncouth. I had bested them.										
"""But at that very triumphant instant it occurred to me, with a chill, that Mum had instructed Mrs. Lane to give me my gifts, just in case she were not back in time for tea."""										
Or for ever. CHAPTER THE FIFTH										
"""BECAUSE MY EYES BURNED WITH TEARS, I am"""										
afraid I excused myself from luncheon rather hastily.										
"""I needed to be outside. Fresh air would cool my heated feelings. Pausing only to snatch up the new drawing kit Mum had given me, I ran out the kitchen door, through the vegetable garden, past the empty stables,  across the overgrown lawn, and into the wooded portion of the estate. Then, out of breath, I walked on beneath the oaks, feeling somewhat better."""										
It seemed I was alone in the forest. The constables and other searchers had passed on to the more distant fields and moorlands.										
"""The woodland sloped downward, and at the bottom of that incline I  reached my favourite place, the deep rocky dell where ferns draped like a lady’s green velvet evening gown over the stones, trailing down to a"										
pebbly stream that formed a pool under a leaning willow. Heedless of my										
"frock and pantalets, I clambered over rocks and ferns until I reached the willow. Hugging its stout trunk, I laid my cheek against its mossy bark. Then I ducked beneath it to crawl into a shady hollow between the overhanging tree and the stream."""										
"""This cool nook was my secret hideaway, known to no one except me. Here I kept things I liked, things Mrs. Lane would have thrown out if I had brought them into the house. As my eyes grew accustomed to the shadows, I settled into my earthy den, looking around me at little shelves I had built of stones. Yes, there were my snail shells, my many-coloured pebbles, my acorn caps, some bright jay feathers, a cuff-link and a  broken locket and other such treasures I had found in magpies’ nests."" ""With a sigh of relief I curled my knees up to my chin in a most unladylike fashion, wrapped my arms around my shins, and gazed at the eddying water just beyond my feet. Trout fingerlings swam in the pool."										
"Watching them dart and school, dart and school, usually I could Mesmerise myself into a sort of daze."""										
"But not today. All I could think was what could have ""become of Mum, how I would have to go home"""										
"""eventually and she would not be awaiting me, but my brothers would, and when I entered with a great deal of dirt all over my frock, they would say—"""										
A pox on my brothers.										
"""Putting my knees down where they belonged, I opened my new drawing kit  to take pencil in hand, and a few sheets of paper. On one of these I drew a hasty, not particularly nice picture of Mycroft in his spats and his monocle and his heavy pocket-watch chain looped across his protruding waistcoat."""										
"""Then I drew a similarly quick picture of Sherlock, all lanky legs and nose and chin."""										
"""Then I wanted to draw Mum, for I was angry at her, too. I wanted to sketch her as she might have looked the day she went away, in her hat like an upside-down flowerpot, Turkey-back jacket, and a bustle, so ridiculous . . ."""										
And she hadn’t taken her art kit with her.										
"And she hadn’t expected to be back for my birthday celebration.  ""She had been up to something. Much as it hurt, I admitted it now."""										
"""Confound her, the whole time I’d been searching for her in a panic, she had been doing very well on her own, enjoying some adventure without me."" One would think I might feel glad to conclude that she was alive."										
Quite to the contrary. I felt wretched. She had abandoned me.										
Why hadn’t she just cast me off in the first place? Put me in a basket and left me on a doorstep when I was born?										
Why had she left me now? Where might she have gone?										
"""Instead of sketching, I sat thinking. Laying aside my drawings, I wrote a list of questions:"""										
Why did  Mum not  take me with her?										
If she had any distance to										
"""travel, why did she not use the bicycle?"" Why did she dress so oddly?"										
Why did she not leave by the gate?										
"""If she struck out across country, on foot, where was she going?"" ""Supposing she found transportation, again, where was she going?"" What did she do with all the money?"										
"""If she were running away, why did she carry no baggage?"" Why would she run away on my birthday?"										
Why did she leave me no word of explanation or farewell?										
"""Putting down my pencil, I stared at the eddying stream, the fingerlings flowing past like dark tears."""										
"""Something rustled in the underbrush that flanked the willow. As I"										
"turned to look, a familiar furry head poked into my hollow."""										
"""“Oh, Reginald,” I complained, “let me alone.” But I leaned towards the old collie. He thrust his broad, blunt snout at my face, fanning his tail as I put my arms around his shaggy neck."""										
"""“Thank you, Reginald,” said a cultured voice. My brother Sherlock stood over me."""										
"""Gasping, I pushed Reginald away and reached for the papers I had left lying on the ground. But not quickly enough. Sherlock picked them up first."""										
"""He gawked at my drawings of Mycroft and himself, then threw his head back and laughed almost silently yet quite heartily, rocking back and forth until he had"""										
"""to sit down on a shelf of rock beside the willow tree,"" gasping for breath."										
"""I felt on fire with mortification, but he was smiling. “Well done, Enola,” he chuckled when he could speak. “You have quite the knack for caricature.” He gave the sketches back to me. “It would perhaps be best if Mycroft were not to see those.”"""										
"""Keeping my red face down, I slipped the papers into the bottom of the drawing kit."""										
"""My brother said, “Sometime that tree is going to tumble right into the water, you know, and it is to be hoped you will not be underneath it when that happens.”"""										
"""He was not mocking my hideaway, at least, but I felt a mild reproach in his words, and his desire for me to come out. Frowning, I did so."""										
"""He asked, “What is that paper you have in your hand? May I see?”"""										
"""My list. I gave it to him, telling myself I didn’t care anymore what he thought of me."""										
"""I sat, slumping, on another fern-upholstered rock as he read."""										
"""He paid close attention to my list. Indeed, he pondered it, his narrow, hawk-nosed face quite serious now."""										
"""“You have certainly covered the salient points,” he said finally, with some small air of surprise. “I think we can surmise that she did not leave by the gate because she did not want the lodge-keeper to see in which direction she was going. And for the same reason she did not want to use the roads, where she might meet with some witness. She has been clever enough to leave us with no idea whether she went north, south, east, or west.”"""										
"""I nodded, sitting up straighter, feeling unaccountably better. My  brother Sherlock had not laughed at my thoughts. He was talking with me."" That nameless butterfly fluttering in my heart—I began to sense now what it was."										
"""It had started when I had found out that my brothers’ quarrel was with my mother, not with me."""										
"""It was—a hope. A dream. A yearning, really. Now"" that there might be a chance."										
"""I wanted my brothers to . . . I did not dare to think in terms of affection, but I wanted them to care for me a little, somehow."" ""Sherlock was saying, “As for your other points, Enola, I hope to clear them up very soon.”"""										
I nodded again.										
"""“One question I do not understand. While I asked Lane for a description of your mother’s attire, I fail to see how it was odd.”"""										
"""I blushed, remembering my shocking blunder with Lane, and only just managed to murmur, “The, um, tournure.”"""										
"""“Ah. The bustle.” It was perfectly all right for him to say it. “As the cannibal asked the missionary’s wife, are all your women so deformed?"										
"Well, there is no accounting for the ways ladies choose to adorn themselves. The whims of the fair sex defy logic.” He shrugged,"										
"dismissing the subject. “Enola, I am returning to London within the hour;"										
"therefore I searched you out in order to say good-bye to you and tell you it has been delightful to see you again after all these years.”"" ""He offered his hand—gloved, of course. I grasped it for a moment. I could not speak."""										
"""“Mycroft will remain here for a few days,” Sherlock went on, “little as he cares to be away from his dear Diogenes Club.”"""										
"""After swallowing to regain my voice, I asked, “What will you do in London?”"""										
"""“File an inquiry with Scotland Yard. Search the passenger lists of steamship companies for women travelling alone, in case, as we hypothesise, our straying mother has left England for the south of France or some such artistic mecca . . . or perhaps she is making a pilgrimage  to some shrine of the Suffragists.” He looked at me quite levelly.  “Enola, you have known her more recently than I. Where do you think she might have gone?”"""										
The great  Sherlock Holmes asking me  for my										
"""thoughts? But I had none to offer. I was, after all, a girl"""										
"""of minimal cranial capacity. Feeling the heat of a blush once more start to burn its way up my neck, I shook my head."""										
"""“Well, the constabulary reports not a sign of her hereabouts, so I am off.” He stood up, touching the brim of his hat as a courtesy, not quite tipping it to me. “Take heart,” he told me. “There is no indication that she has come to any harm.” Then, swinging his stick, he walked up the rocks of the dell with easy dignity, as if ascending a marble stairway to some London palace. Reaching the top,  without turning  he raised his cane, waggling it in a kind of dismissal or farewell, then strode off towards the hall with the dog trotting adoringly after him."""										
"""I watched him until he disappeared between the forest trees—watched after him almost as if I knew that, through no fault of his own, I would not converse with him again for a long time."""										
"""Back at the hall, I went looking for the item Lane had""    ""called a “dress improver,” finding it where I had left it, most"										
"inappropriately, in the front parlour. I wondered why Mum had put the featherweight cushion upon her dresser, yet had not worn it inside her bustle. Pondering, I took it and walked upstairs to replace it in her bedroom in case she wanted it when she—"""										
Returned?										
"But there was no reason to think she would ever return.    ""She had, after all, chosen to leave. Of her own free will."""										
"""Sinking into the hard wooden arms of a hallway chair, I slumped like a comma over the prickly pouf of horsehair I held. I stayed that way for a long time."""										
"""Finally I lifted my head, vengeful thoughts hardening my jaw. If Mum had left me behind, I was very well going to help myself to the contents of her rooms."""										
"""This was a decision prompted partly by spleen, partly by necessity. Having ruined my frock, I needed to change it. The few others I owned, formerly white, now  yellow-green with dirt and grass stains, only"" looked worse.  I would choose something out of"										
Mum’s wardrobe.										
"""Rising, I strode across the upstairs hallway to my mother’s door and turned the knob."""										
To no good effect. The door was locked.										
"""It had been a most annoying day. Stalking to the stairs, leaning over the banister, I allowed my voice to rise to a naughty pitch. “Lane!”"" ""“Shhh!” Amazingly—for he could have been anywhere from the chimney to the cellar—the butler appeared below me within a moment. One white- gloved finger to his lips, he informed me, “Miss Enola, Mr. Mycroft is napping.”"""										
"""Rolling my eyes, I beckoned Lane to come upstairs. When he had done so,"										
"I told him more quietly, “I need the key to Mother’s rooms.”"""										
“Mr. Mycroft has given orders that those rooms are to be kept locked.” Astonishment trumped my annoyance. “What ever for?”										
"""“It’s not my place to ask, Miss Enola.”"""										
"“Very well. I don’t need the key if you’ll just unlock the door for me.” ""“I should have to ask Mr. Mycroft’s permission, Miss Enola, and if I awaken him, he will be put out. Mr. Mycroft has given orders—”"""										
"""Mr. Mycroft this, Mr. Mycroft that, Mr. Mycroft could go soak his head in a rain-barrel. Tight-lipped, I thrust the dress improver at Lane. “I need to put this back where it belongs.”"""										
"""The butler actually blushed, which gratified me, as I had not seen him do so ever before."""										
"""“Moreover,” I continued quite softly between my clenched teeth, “I need to search my mother’s wardrobe for something to wear. If I go down to dinner in this frock, Mr. Mycroft will be more than put out. He will froth at the mouth. Unlock the door.”"""										
"""Without another word, Lane did so. But he himself kept the key and stood outside the door, waiting for me."""										
"""Therefore, filled with the spirit of perversity, I took"""										
"""my time. But as I scanned my mother’s dresses, I thought also about this new development. Locked door to Mum’s rooms, entry with Mycroft’s permission only—this would never do."""										
I wondered whether Mum might possibly have left her own key behind.										
"""The thought frightened me, for if—dressing to go out for the day—if she had intended to return, she would have taken the key with her."" ""Therefore, if she had left it behind—the meaning was all too plain.""  ""It took me a moment and several deep breaths to make myself reach for her walking suit, which still hung over the standing mirror."""										
"""I found the key at once, in a jacket pocket."""										
"""It felt heavy in my hand. I stood looking at it as if I had never seen it before. Oval handle on one end of the shank, toothed rectangle on the other. Strange, cold iron thing."""										
"""She really wasn’t planning to come back, then."""										
"""Yet this hateful skeleton of metal had suddenly become my most precious possession. Clutching it, I draped a dress from my mother’s wardrobe over my hand to conceal it, and went out again."""										
"""“Very well, Lane,” I told him blandly, and he once more locked the door."""										
"""At dinner, Mycroft had the courtesy to say not a word"""										
"""about my borrowed dress, a loose, flowing Aesthetic gown, which bared my neck but hung upon the rest of me like a sheet upon a broomstick."										
"Although I was as tall as Mum, I lacked her womanly figure, and in any event, I had chosen the dress for its colour—peach touched with cream, which I loved—not for any pretense of fit. It dragged on the floor, but very well, thus it concealed my little-girl boots. I had tied a sash around my straight-as-a-poker middle to resemble a waist; I wore a necklace; I had even tried to arrange my hair, although its indefinite brownish hue made it hardly a crowning beauty. Altogether, I am sure I looked like a child playing dress-up, and I knew it."""										
"""Mycroft, although he said nothing, clearly was not"""										
"""pleased. As soon as the fish was served, he told me, “I have sent to London for a seamstress to provide you with proper clothing.”"""										
"""I nodded. Some new clothes would be nice, and if I didn’t like them, I could revert to my comfortable knickerbockers the moment his back was turned. But I said, “There is a seamstress right here in Kineford.”"" ""“Yes, I am aware of that. But the London seamstress will know exactly what you need for boarding school.”"""										
"""Whatever was he talking about? Quite patiently I said, “I am not going to boarding school.”"""										
"""Just as patiently he responded, “Of course you are, Enola. I have sent"										
"inquiries to several excellent establishments for young ladies.”""     ""Mother had told me about such establishments. Her Rational Dress  journals were filled with warnings about their cultivation of the “hourglass” figure. At one such “school,” the headmistress tightened a corset upon each girl who entered, and on the girl’s waist the corset stayed, day and night, waking or sleeping, except for one hour a week  when it was removed for “ablutions,” that is, so that the girl could bathe. Then it was replaced, tighter, depriving the wearer of the ability to breathe normally, so that the slightest shock would cause her to fall down in a faint. This was considered “charming.” It was also considered moral, the corset being “an ever-present monitor bidding its wearer to exercise self-restraint”—in other words, making it impossible for the hapless victim to bend or relax her posture. The modern corsets, unlike  my mother’s old whalebone ones, were so long that they needed to be made of steel so as not to break, their rigidity displacing the internal  organs and deforming the ribcage. One schoolgirl’s corseted ribs had actually punctured her lungs, causing her untimely demise. Her waist as she lay in her coffin had measured fifteen inches."""										
"""All of this passed through my mind in an instant as my fork dropped to my plate with a clatter. I sat stunned, chilled by the horror of my situation, yet unable to state any of my objections to my brother. To"" speak of such intimate matters of the female form to a"										
"""male was unthinkable. I was able only to gasp, “But, Mother—”""    ""“There is no assurance that your mother will come back anytime soon. I cannot stay here indefinitely.” Thank goodness, I thought. “And you can’t just vegetate here by yourself, now, can you, Enola?”"""										
“Are Lane and Mrs. Lane not to stay on?”										
"""He frowned, putting down the knife with which he had been buttering his bread. “Of course, but servants cannot possibly provide you with proper instruction and supervision.”"""										
"""“I was about to say, Mother would not like—”"""										
"""“Your mother has failed in her responsibility to you.” His tone had grown considerably sharper than the butter knife. “What is to become of you if you do not acquire some accomplishments, some social graces, some finish? You will never be able to move in polite society, and your prospects of matrimony—”"""										
"""“Are dim to nil in any event,” I said, “as I look just like Sherlock.”"" ""I think my candor staggered him. “My dear girl.” His tone softened.  “That will change, or it will be changed.” By my sitting for endless hours with a book on top of my head while playing the piano, I  supposed. Days spent in torment, plus corsets, dress improvers, and false hair, although he would not say so. “You come from a family of quality, and with some polishing, I am sure you will not disgrace us.”"""										
"""I said, “I have always been a disgrace, I will always be a disgrace, and I am not going to be sent to any finishing establishment for young ladies.”"""										
"""“Yes, you are.”"""										
"""Glaring across the table at each other in the candle- lit twilight, we had given up any pretense of dining. I am sure he was aware, as I was, that both Lane and Mrs. Lane were eavesdropping in the hallway, but I, for one, did not care."""										
"""I raised my voice. “No. Get me a governess if you must, but I am not going to any so-called boarding school. You cannot make me go.”"""										
"""He actually softened his tone, but said, “Yes, I can,"" and I shall.”"										
“What do you mean? Shall you shackle me to take me there?”										
"""He rolled his eyes. “Just like her mother,” he declared to the ceiling, and then he fixed upon me a stare so martyred, so condescending, that I froze rigid. In tones of sweetest reason he told me, “Enola, legally I"										
"hold complete charge over both your mother and you. I can, if I wish,"										
"lock you in your room until you become sensible, or take whatever other measures are necessary in order to achieve that desired result. Moreover, as your older brother I bear a moral responsibility for you, and it is plain to see that you have run wild too long. I am perhaps only just in time to save you from a wasted life. You will do as I say.”"""										
In that moment I understood exactly how Mum had felt during those days after my father’s death.										
"""And why she had made no attempt to visit my brothers in London, or welcomed them to Ferndell Park."""										
"""And why she had tricked money out of Mycroft. I stood up. “Dinner no longer appeals to me. You’ll excuse me, I’m sure.”"""										
"""I wish I could say I swept with cold dignity out of the room, but the truth is, I tripped over my skirt and stumbled to the stairs.""     CHAPTER THE SIXTH"										
"""THAT NIGHT I COULD NOT SLEEP. INDEED, at first"""										
"""I could not even be still. In my nightgown, barefoot, I paced, paced, paced my bedroom as I imagined a lion at the London Zoo might pace his cage. Later, when I turned my coal-oil lamp low, put out my candles, and went to bed, my eyes would not close. I heard Mycroft retire to the guest bedroom; I heard Lane and Mrs. Lane tread upstairs to their quarters on the top floor, and still I lay staring at the shadows."""										
"""The whole reason for my distress was not as obvious as may at first appear. It was Mycroft who had made me angry, but it was my changing thoughts about my mother that made me upset, almost queasy. It feels very queer to think of one’s mother as a person like oneself, not just a mum, so to speak. Yet there it was: She had been weak as well as strong. She had felt as trapped as I did. She had felt the injustice of her situation just as keenly. She had been forced to obey, as I would be forced to  obey. She had wanted to rebel, as I desperately yearned to rebel, without knowing how I ever would or could."""										
"""But in the end, she had managed it. Glorious rebellion."" ""Confound her, why had she not taken me with her?"""										
"""Kicking off the covers to lunge out of bed, I turned up the oil lamp, stalked to my desk—its border of stencilled flowers did not cheer me now— seized paper and pencil from my drawing kit, and drew a furious picture  of my mother, all wrinkles and jowls with her mouth a thin line, going  off in her three- storeys-and-a-basement hat and her turkey-back jacket, flourishing her umbrella like a sword while the train of her ridiculous bustle trailed behind her."""										
Why had she not taken me into her confidence? Why had she left me behind?										
"""Oh, very well, I could understand, however painfully, that she had not wanted to trust a young girl with her secret . . . but why had she not at least offered me some message of explanation or farewell?"""										
"""And why, oh why, had she chosen to leave on my"""										
birthday? Mum never in her life took a stitch without thread. She must have had a reason. What could it be?										
Because . . .										
"""I sat bolt upright at the desk, my mouth agape. Now I saw."" From Mum’s point of view."										
"""And it made perfect sense. Mum was clever. Clever, clever, clever."" She had left me a message. As a present."										
"""On my birthday. Which was why she had chosen that day of all days to leave. A day for the giving of gifts, so no one would notice—"""										
"""I leapt up. Where had I put it? I had to light a candle to carry with me so I could see to look around my bedroom. It was not on the bookshelf. It was not on any of the chairs, or my dresser, or my washstand, or my bed. It was not perched on the Noah’s Ark or the rocking horse, hand-me-downs from my brothers. Confound my stupid, muddled head, where had I put ."""										
""". . there. In my neglected dollhouse, of all places, there it was: a"										
"slender sheaf of hand-painted, hand-lettered crisp artists’ papers, creased precisely in half and stitched together along the fold."""										
I pounced upon it: the booklet of ciphers my mother had created for me. ALO NEK OOL NIY MSM										
UME HTN ASY RHC										
In my mother’s flyaway lettering.										
"""One glance at the first cipher made me shut my eyes, wanting to cry."" ""Think, Enola."""										
"""It was almost as if I heard my mother chiding me from inside my head."										
"“Enola, you’ll do quite well on your own.”"""										
"""I opened my eyes, stared at the line of jumbled"" ""letters, and thought."""										
"""Very well. First of all, a sentence would not likely have words all of three letters."""										
"""Taking a fresh sheet of paper from my drawing kit, I pulled close the oil lamp on one hand and the candle on the other, then copied the cipher like this:"""										
ALONEKOOLNIYMSMUMEHTNASYRHC										
The first word sprang out at me: “alone.”										
Or was it “Enola”? Try it backwards.										
CHRYSANTHEMUMSMYINLOOKENOLA										
My eye passed over the first part to seize upon the letters “MUM.” Mum. Mother was sending me a message about herself?										
MUMS MY IN LOOK ENOLA										
The order of the words sounded backwards. ENOLA LOOK IN MY										
"""Oh, for Heaven’s sake. CHRYSANTHEMUMS. The"""										
border of flowers painted around the page should have told me. Gold and russet chrysanthemums.										
I had solved the cipher. I was not totally stupid.										
"""Or perhaps I was, for what on earth did it mean, “Enola, look in my chrysanthemums”? Had Mother buried something in a flower bed somewhere? Unlikely. I doubted she’d ever held a shovel in her life. Dick took care of such chores, and in any event, Mother was no gardener; she liked to let hardy flowers, such as the chrysanthemums, take care of themselves."""										
The chrysanthemums outside. What would she consider her chrysanthemums?										
Downstairs the casement clock struck two. Never										
before had I been up so late at night. My mind felt as if										
"""it were  floating, not quite  anchored  in my head anymore."" I felt tired and calm enough to go to bed now. But I did not wish to. ""Wait. Mother had given me another book. The Meanings of Flowers."										
"Reaching for it, I consulted the index, then looked up chrysanthemum."" ""“The bestowing of chrysanthemums indicates familial attachment and, by implication, affection.”"""										
"""Implied affection was better than nothing. Idly, I looked up the sweet pea blossom."""										
"""“Good-bye, and thank you for a lovely time. A gift made upon departure.”"""										
Departure.										
"""Next, I looked up thistles. “Defiance.”"" Grimly I smiled."										
So. Mum had left a message after all. Departure and defiance in the Japanese vase. In her airy sitting room with a hundred watercolours on the wall.										
Watercolours of flowers.										
"""I blinked, smiling  wider. “Enola,” I whispered to myself, “that’s it.”"""										
“My” chrysanthemums. Mums that Mum had painted.										
"""And framed, and displayed on the wall of her sitting room."" I knew."										
"""Without an inkling how anything could be “in” a mum painting or what it might be, I knew that I had understood rightly, and I knew that I must go and see. This very moment. At the darkest hour of night. When no one  else, especially not my brother Mycroft, would know."""										
"""Girls are supposed to play with dolls. Over the years, well-meaning adults had provided me with various dolls. I detested dolls, pulling their heads off"""										
"""when I could, but now I had finally found a use for"""										
"""them. Inside a yellow-haired doll’s hollow cranium, I had hidden the key to my mother’s rooms. It took me only a moment to retrieve it."""										
"""Then, lowering the wick of the oil lamp and carrying my candle with me, I softly opened my bedroom door."""										
"""My mother’s door stood on the opposite end of the hallway from mine, and directly across from the guest room."""										
Where my brother Mycroft lay sleeping. I hoped he was sleeping. I hoped he was quite a sound sleeper.										
"""Barefoot, with candlestick in one hand and my precious key in the other, I tiptoed down the hallway."""										
Issuing from behind Mycroft’s closed bedroom door came an uncouth drone rather like that of a hog lying in the sun.										
Evidently my brother snored.										
A good indication that he was indeed asleep. Excellent.										
"""As silently as possible I inserted and turned the key in the lock of my mother’s door. Still, the bolt snicked. And, as I turned the knob, the latch clicked."""										
"""A snort interrupted the rhythm of Mycroft’s snoring. Looking at his bedchamber door over my shoulder,"""										
I froze.										
"""I heard some wallowing sounds, as if he were turning over. His bedstead creaked. Then he snored on."""										
"""Slipping into Mum’s private parlour and closing the door behind me, I breathed out."""										
"""Lifting the candle, I looked up at the walls."""										
So many watercolours my mother had painted of so many different sorts of flowers.										
"""I searched the four walls, straining my eyes to see the pictures in the wan candlelight. At last I found a rendition of chrysanthemums, russet and gold, like the ones in my cipher book."""										
"""Standing on tiptoe, I could just reach the bottom of"""										
"""the frame—a fragile one, carved like  the furniture in my mother’s room to resemble sticks of bamboo, their ends crossed and projecting. Gently I lifted the frame, coaxing its wire off the nail to take it down. I carried it to the tea table, where I set my candle beside it and studied it."""										
"""Enola, look in my chrysanthemums."""										
"""Often enough I had seen Mum frame her pictures. The frame itself came first, facedown on a table. Then the glass, very clean. Then a kind of inner frame cut out of thick tinted paper. To this the top edge of the watercolour was lightly gummed. Then a backing of thin wood painted white. Tiny nails driven edgewise into the frame held everything in place, and finally Mother would paste brown paper over the back of the frame to hide the nails and keep out dust."""										
"I turned the chrysanthemum picture over and looked at its brown paper. ""Taking a deep breath, I pried at one corner with my fingernails, trying to peel the paper off in one piece. Instead, a long strip of brown tore away. But never mind. I saw something nestled at the bottom of the"										
"picture, between the brown paper and the wooden backing. Something"										
"folded. Something white."" A note from Mum!"										
"""A letter explaining her desertion, expressing her regrets and her affection, perhaps even inviting me to join her . . ."""										
"""With my heart pounding please, please, and with my fingers shaking, I fished out the rectangle of crisp paper."""										
"""Trembling, I opened it."""										
"""Yes, it was a note all right, from Mum. But not the sort of note for which I hoped."""										
It was a Bank of England note for a hundred pounds.										
More money than most common folk saw in a year. But money was not what I wanted from my mother.										
"I must admit that I cried myself to sleep. But sleep I ""did, finally, straight through the next morning, and no"""										
"""one disturbed me except that Mrs. Lane came in once and woke me to ask whether I felt ill. I told her no, I was just tired, and she left. I  heard her say to someone, probably her husband, in the hallway, “She’s in a state of collapse, and no wonder, poor lamb.”"""										
"""When I awoke in the early afternoon, although very much wanting both breakfast and luncheon, I did not at once leap out of bed. Instead, I lay still for a moment and made myself consider my situation with a clear head."""										
"""Very well. While not what I had hoped for, money was something."""										
"""Mum had secretly given me a considerable sum. Which she had gotten, no doubt, from Mycroft. By deceitful means."""										
Was it proper for me to keep it?										
"""It was not any money that Mycroft had ever earned. Rather, as far as I could understand, it was money that settled on him for being Father’s firstborn son."""										
"""It was the inheritance of a squire. Centuries worth of rent money, with more coming  in every year. And why? For the sake of Ferndell Hall and its estate."""										
"""In a very real sense, the money, like the chandeliers, did go with the house."""										
"""Which was, or should be, Mother’s house."""										
"""Legally, the money was neither Mother’s nor mine. But morally—many, many times Mum had explained to me how unfair the laws were. If a woman laboured to write and publish a book, for instance, any money it earned was supposed to go to her husband. How absurd was that?"""										
"""How absurd, then, would it be for me to give that hundred-pound note back to my brother Mycroft just because he had been born first?"" ""Legalities could go jump in a lake, I decided to my satisfaction; morally, that money was mine. Mum had sacrificed and struggled to wrest it from the estate. And she had slipped it to me."""										
How much more might there be? She had left me many ciphers.										
What did Mother mean for me to do with it?										
"""Already, dimly, by her example I knew the answer to that question."" CHAPTER THE SEVENTH"										
"""FIVE WEEKS LATER, I WAS READY."""										
"""That is to  say, in the eyes of Ferndell Hall I was ready to go to boarding school."""										
"""And in my own mind, I was ready for a venture of quite a different sort."""										
"""Regarding boarding school: The seamstress had arrived from London, settled herself in a long-vacant room once occupied by a lady’s maid, sighed over the old treadle sewing machine, and then taken my measurements. Waist: 20 inches. Tsk. Too large. Chest: 21 inches. Tsk. Far too small. Hips: 22 inches. Tsk. Dreadfully inadequate. But all"										
could be set right. In a fashionable publication my mother would never										
"have allowed in Ferndell Hall, the seamstress located the following advertisement:"""										
AMPLIFIER:     Ideal										
"""Corset for perfecting thin figures. Words cannot describe its charming effect, which is unapproachable & unattainable by any other Corset in  the World. Softly padded Regulators inside (with other improvements combining softness, lightness, & comfort) regulate at wearer’s pleasure any desired fullness   with   the graceful curves of a beautifully proportioned   bust."""										
Corset sent on approval in plain parcel on receipt of remittance.										
Guaranteed.  Money returned     if      not										
satisfied.        Avoid worthless substitutes.										
"""This device was duly ordered, and the seamstress began to produce prim, dim-coloured dresses with high whalebone-ribbed collars to strangle me, waistbands designed to choke my breathing, and skirts which, spread over half a dozen flounced silk petticoats, trailed on the floor so that I could barely walk. She proposed to sew two dresses with a 19½- inch waist, then two with a 19-inch waist, and so on to 18½ inches and smaller, in expectation that as I grew, I would diminish."""										
"""Meanwhile, increasingly terse telegrams from Sherlock Holmes reported no word of Mother. He had tracked down her old friends, her fellow artists, her Suffragist associates; he had even travelled to France to check with her distant relations, the Vernets, but all to no avail. I had begun to feel afraid for Mum again; why had the great detective not been able to locate her? Might some accident have befallen her after all? Or, even worse, some foul crime?"""										
"""My thinking changed, however, upon the day the seamstress completed the first dress."""										
"""At which time I was expected to put on the Ideal Corset (which had arrived, as promised, in discreet brown paper wrappings) with frontal and lateral regulators plus, of course, a Patent Dress Improver so that never again would my back be able to rest against that of any chair I sat in."										
"Also, I was expected to wear my hair in a chignon secured with hairpins that dug into my scalp, with a fringe of false curls across my forehead similarly skewered. As my reward, I got to put on my new dress and, in new shoes just as torturous, toddle around the hall to practise being a young lady."""										
"""That day I realised, with irrational yet complete certainty, where my mother had gone: someplace where there were no hairpins, no corsets (Ideal or Otherwise), and no Patent Dress Improvers."""										
"""Meanwhile, brother Mycroft sent a telegram reporting that all was arranged—I was to present myself at such-and-such a “finishing school” (house of"""										
horrors) on such-and-such a date—and  instructing Lane to see to my getting there.										
"""More importantly, regarding my own venture: I spent"""										
"""my days as much as I could in a dressing gown, keeping to my room and napping, pleading nervous prostration. Mrs. Lane, who frequently offered me calves’ foot jelly and the like (small wonder invalids waste away!), grew so worried that she communicated with Mycroft, who assured her that boarding school, where I would breakfast upon oatmeal and wear wool next to my skin, would restore my health. Nevertheless, she summoned first the local apothecary, and later a Harley Street physician all the way from London, neither of whom found anything wrong with me."""										
"""Correctly enough. I was simply avoiding corsets, hairpins, tight shoes, and the like, while making up for lost sleep. No one knew that every night, after I had heard the rest of the household go to bed, I got up and worked on my cipher book through the dark hours. I enjoyed the"										
"ciphers after all, for I loved finding things, and Mum’s ciphers gave me"										
"a new way to do this, first discovering the hidden meaning, then the treasure. Each cipher I unraveled led me into Mum’s rooms in search of more riches she had secreted for me. Some of the ciphers I could not solve, which frustrated me so that I considered ripping the backing off  of all Mum’s watercolours—but that hardly seemed sporting. Also, there were many, many, too many paintings, and moreover, not all of the ciphers directed me to them."""										
"""There was, for instance, a page in my cipher book decorated with ivy trailing along a picket fence. At once, without even looking at the cipher, I stole into Mother’s rooms in search of a watercolour study of ivy. I found two and ripped the backing off both without success before I rather sullenly returned to my room and faced the cipher:"""										
AOEOLIMESOK LNKONYDBBN										
"""What in the world? I looked up ivy in The Meanings of Flowers. The clinging vine stood for “fidelity.” Although touching, this knowledge did not help me. I scowled at"""										
the cipher for quite a while before I was able to pick										
"""out my name in the first three letters of the top line combined with the first two letters of the bottom line. Then I noticed how Mum had painted the ivy zigzagging in a rather unnatural manner up and down the picket fence. Also, the ivy grew from right to left. Rolling my eyes, I followed the same pattern and rewrote the cipher:"""										
KNOBSBEDMYINLOOKENOLA KNOBS BED MY IN										
LOOK ENOLA										
"""Or, reading the words from right to left:"" ENOLA LOOK IN MY"										
BED KNOBS										
"""Off I went, tiptoeing through the night, to remove the"""										
knobs from Mum’s bed and discover that an astonishing amount of paper money can be stuffed inside brass bedposts.										
"""I, in my turn, had to find clever hiding places within my bedroom so that Mrs. Lane’s occasional invasions with dust-cloth would discover nothing. My curtain rods, made of brass like Mother’s bed, with knobs on the ends, served the purpose."""										
"And all of this had to be done before the Lanes rose at dawn. ""Altogether, my nights were far more active and satisfactory than my days."""										
"""I did not ever find what I most desired—any note of farewell, affectionate regard, or explanation from Mum. But truly, at this point, not much explanation was needed. I knew that she had practised her deceptions for my sake, at least in part. And I knew that the money she had so cleverly slipped to me was meant to give me freedom."""										
"""Thanks to Mum, therefore, it was in a surprisingly hopeful, if nervous, state of mind that, one sunny morning in late August, I mounted to the seat of the"""										
conveyance that was to take me away from the only home I had ever known.										
Lane had arranged with a local farmer for the loan of										
"""a horse and a kind of hybrid contraption, or “trap,” a luggage-wagon with an upholstered seat for me and the driver. I was to travel to the railway station in comfort, if not in style."""										
"""“I hope it doesn’t rain,” Mrs. Lane remarked, standing in the drive to see me off."""										
It hadn’t rained in weeks. Not since the day I had gone searching for my mother.										
"""“Unlikely,” said Lane, giving me his hand so that I could step up to my"										
"seat like a lady, one kid-gloved hand in his while the other lifted my white ruffled parasol. “There’s not a cloud in the sky.”"""										
"""Smiling down on Lane and Mrs. Lane, I settled first my bustle, then myself, next to Dick, my driver. Just as my bustle occupied the back of the seat, Mrs. Lane had arranged my hair to occupy the back of my head,  as was the fashion, so that my hat, rather like a beribboned straw dinner plate, tilted forward over my eyes. I wore a taupe suit I had chosen carefully for its nondescript, indeed ugly colour, its 19½-inch  waistband, full skirt, and concealing jacket. Beneath the jacket I had left the skirt’s waistband unbuttoned so that I could corset myself as lightly as possible, almost comfortably. I could breathe."""										
As would be needful very soon.										
"""“You look every inch a lady, Miss Enola,” said Lane, standing back."										
"“You’ll be a credit to Ferndell Hall, I’m sure.”"" Little did he know."										
"""“We’ll miss you,” quavered Mrs. Lane, and for a moment my heart reproached me, for I saw tears on her soft old face."""										
"""“Thank you,” I said rather stiffly, starching myself against my own emotion. “Dick, drive on.”"""										
"""All the way to the gate I stared at the horse’s ears. My brother Mycroft had hired men to “clean up” the lawn of the estate, and I did not want to see it with my wild rosebushes cut down."""										
"""“Good-bye, Miss Enola, and good luck,” said the"""										
"""lodge-keeper as he opened the gates for us. “Thank you, Cooper.”"""										
"""As the horse trotted through Kineford, I sighed and allowed my glance to roam, taking a farewell look at the butcher’s shop, the greengrocer’s shop, black- beamed,   whitewashed  thatched  cottages,  public house, post and telegraph office, constabulary, more Tudor cottages with tiny windows scowling under their heavy straw forelocks, the   inn, the smithy, the vicarage, the granite chapel with its mossy slate roof, headstones tilting this way and that in the graveyard—"""										
"""I let us trot almost past before I said suddenly, as if I had just that moment thought of it, “Dick, stop. I wish to say good-bye to my father.”"" ""He pulled the horse to a halt. “What was that, Miss Enola?”"""										
"""When dealing with Dick, full and simple explanations were necessary. “I wish to visit my father’s grave,” I told him one patient word at a time, “and say a prayer for him in the chapel.”"""										
"""Poor Father, he would not have desired such prayers. As a logician and  an unbeliever, Mum had once told me, he had not desired a funeral; his request had been for cremation, but after his demise, his wishes had been overruled for fear that Kineford might never recover from the scandal."" ""In his slow, worried way Dick said, “I’m to drive you to the railway station, miss.”"""										
“There is plenty of time. You can have a pint at the public house while you’re waiting for me.”										
"""“Oh! Aye.” He turned the horse, backtracked, and drew up at the door of the chapel. We sat for a moment before he remembered his manners, but then he secured the reins, got down, and came around to my side to help  me descend."""										
"""“Thank you,” I told him as I withdrew my gloved hand from his grubby fist. “Come back for me in ten minutes.”"""										
"Nonsense; I knew he’d be half an hour or more in the public house. ""“Yes, miss.” He touched his cap."""										
"""He drove away, and amid a swirl of skirts I minced into the chapel."" ""As I had expected  and hoped, I found it unoccupied. After scanning the empty pews, I grinned, tossed my parasol into the castoff-clothing- for-the- poor box, hoisted my skirts above my knees, and dashed for the back door."""										
And out into the sunlit graveyard.										
"""Down a twisting path worn between the tottering headstones I ran,"										
"keeping the chapel  between me and any witness who might be passing  upon the village street. When I reached the hedge at the bottom of the chapel grounds, I leapt more than climbed the stile, turned right, ran a bit farther, and yes, indeed, yes! There waited my bicycle, hidden in the hedge, where I had left it yesterday. Or rather, yesternight. In the  small hours, by the light of a nearly full moon."""										
"""On the bicycle were mounted two containers, a basket in front and a box in back, both packed full of sandwiches, pickles, hard-boiled eggs, water flask, bandaging in case of accident, tyre repair kit, knickerbockers, my comfortable old black boots, toothbrush, and such."""										
"""On my person, also, were mounted two containers, hidden beneath the  taupe suit, one in front and one in back. The one in front was a quite unique bust enhancer that I had secretly hand-sewn for myself out of materials purloined from Mum’s wardrobe. For the container in back, I had devised a dress improver of like sort."""										
"""Why, leaving home, had my mother worn a bustle, yet left its horsehair stuffing behind?"""										
The answer seemed obvious to me: in order to conceal in the dress improver’s place the baggage necessary for running away.										
"""And I, being blessed with a flat chest, had carried her example a step further. My various and proper regulators, enhancers, and improvers remained in Ferndell Hall—stuffed up my chimney, actually. In their places upon my person I wore cloth containers— baggage,  in  effect— filled  with  unmentionables"""										
"""wrapped around bundles of bank notes. In addition, I"""										
"""had folded a carefully chosen spare dress and secured it to my back between my petticoats, where it perfectly filled my train. In the pockets of my suit I had a handkerchief, a cake of soap, comb and hairbrush, my now-precious booklet of ciphers, smelling salts, energy-sustaining  candies . . . indeed, I bore a steamer trunk’s worth of essentials."" ""Hopping onto my bicycle, letting my petticoats and skirts modestly drape my ankles, I pedalled off across country."""										
A good cyclist does not need a road. I would follow the farm lanes and pasturelands for the time being. The ground was baked hard as iron; I would leave no tracks.										
"""By tomorrow, I imagined, my brother the great detective Sherlock Holmes would be attempting to locate a missing sister as well as a missing mother."""										
"""He would expect me to flee from him. Therefore, I would not. I would flee towards him."""										
"""He lived in London. So did Mycroft. On that account, and also because it was the world’s largest and most dangerous city, it was the last place on earth either of them would expect me to venture."""										
"""Therefore, I would go there."""										
"""They would expect me to disguise myself as a boy. Very likely they had heard about my knickerbockers, and anyway, in Shakespeare and other works of fiction, runaway girls always disguised themselves as boys."" ""Therefore, I would not."""										
"""I would disguise myself as the last thing my brothers would think I could, having met me as a plain beanpole of a child in a frock that barely covered my knees."""										
I would disguise myself as a grown woman. And then I would set about finding my mother.										
CHAPTER THE EIGHTH										
I COULD  HAVE  PEDALLED  STRAIGHT INTO										
"""London by the main road, but that would never do. Too many people would see me. No, my plan for getting to London was simply—and, I hoped, illogically—to have no plan. If I myself did not know what exactly I was doing, then how could my brothers guess?"""										
"""They would hypothesise, of course; they would say, “Mother took her to"										
"Bath, so perhaps she has gone there,” or “In her room there is a book on Wales, with pencil markings on the map; perhaps she has gone there.” (I hoped they would find the book, which I had placed in the dollhouse as a false clue. The Meanings of Flowers, however, too large to carry with me, I had hidden among hundreds of other stout volumes in the library downstairs.) Mycroft and Sherlock would apply inductive reasoning; therefore, I reasoned, I must trust to chance. I would let the land show me the way eastward, choosing the stoniest ground or whatever would show my tyre marks the least."""										
"""It did not matter where I found myself at the end of that day, or the next. I would dine upon bread and cheese, I would sleep in the open like a Gypsy, and eventually, wandering along, I would encounter a railway line. By following it one way or the other, I would find a station, and so long as it was not Chaucerlea (where my brothers would surely inquire for me), any station in England would do, for all railways ran to London."""										
"""So much for a seventeen-inch waist, oatmeal for breakfast and wool next to the skin, matrimonial prospects, the accomplishments of a young lady, et cetera."""										
"""Such were my happy thoughts as I pedalled across a cow pasture, along a grassy lane, then onto open moorland, and away from the countryside I knew."""										
"""In the blue sky overhead, larks sang like my heart."""										
"""As I kept to byways and avoided villages, not too many people saw me. An occasional farmer looked"""										
"""up from his turnip field, unsurprised by the sight of a""     ""gentlewoman upon her bicycle; such cycling enthusiasts had grown increasingly common. Indeed, I met with just another such beige-clad figure upon a gravel wagon track, and we nodded in passing. She looked"										
"all of a glow from the heat and the exercise. Horses sweat, you know, and men perspire, whereas ladies glow. I am sure I looked all of a glow also. Indeed, I could feel all-of-a-glow trickling down my sides beneath my corset, the steel ribs of which jabbed me under the arms most  annoyingly."""										
"""By the time the sun stood overhead, I felt quite ready to stop for luncheon, all the more so as I had not slept the night before. Seated under a spreading elm tree, upon a cushion of moss, I badly wanted to lie down and pillow my head there for a while. But after I had eaten, I  forced myself to get back upon the bicycle and pedal onward, for I knew I must get as far away as possible before the pursuit began."""										
"""That afternoon, aptly enough considering my thoughts of Gypsies, I met with a caravan of the nomad folk in their brightly painted round-topped house-wagons. Most gentry despised Gypsies, but Mother had allowed them  to camp sometimes upon the Ferndell estate, and as a child I had been fascinated by them. Even now I halted my bicycle to watch them pass, gazing eagerly upon their many- coloured horses prancing and tossing their heads despite the heat, with the drivers needing to hold them in more than urge them forward. And I waved to the travellers in the wagons without fear, for of all people on earth Gypsies were the least likely to speak of me to the police. The men darkly ignored me, but some of the bare-headed, bare-necked, bare-armed women waved back, and all of the ragged children waved and squealed and called out, begging. Shameless, dirty, thieving lot, Mrs. Lane would have called them, and I suppose she was right. Yet if I’d been carrying pennies in my pocket, I would have thrown some to them."""										
"""Also that afternoon on a country road I met a travelling peddler, his wagon hung round with tin-ware and umbrellas and baskets and sea sponges and birdcages and washboards and all manner of trifles. I stopped him and had him show me everything in his"""										
"""stock, from copper kettles to tortoise-shell combs for"""										
"""the back of the hair, in order to disguise my purpose before I bought the one thing I really needed: a carpet- bag."""										
"""Laying it across my handle-bars, I pedalled on."""										
"""I saw other wayfarers, on foot and in conveyances ranging from coach- and-four to donkey-carts, but my memories become faulty as my weariness blurred the day. By the time night fell, every part of my person ached, and I felt fagged as never before in my life. Walking now upon turf cropped to the roots by sheep, pushing my bicycle and leaning upon it, I struggled up a low, limestone-studded hill on top of which stood a grove of beeches. Once I reached the concealment of the trees, I let my bicycle fall where it would, while I myself collapsed in dirt and last year’s leaves, my spirits as low with evening as they had been high with  morning, for I wondered: Would I find strength to get on that bicycle again tomorrow?"""										
I could sleep where I was. Unless . . . for the first time I thought: What if it rained?										
"My plan not to plan seemed more foolish with every panting breath I drew. ""After I had despaired for a while, I managed to stagger up and, in the concealing darkness, take off my hat, hairpins, and the baggage I carried on my person, along with my tormenting corset. Too weary even to think of food, I folded to the ground again and, wearing petticoats and my much- soiled taupe suit as my only covering, fell asleep within moments."""										
"""So nocturnal had my habits become, however, that sometime late at night I awoke."""										
"""No longer the least bit sleepy, I felt famished."""										
"""But there was no  moon tonight. The sky had clouded over. It might indeed rain. And without moonlight or even starlight, I could not see to find myself the food I had packed in the box on the bicycle. Nor could I see to find, for the sake of light, the tin of matches I had stupidly left in the same place. I would consider myself fortunate if I stumbled upon the bicycle at all."""										
"""“Curses,” I muttered naughtily, feeling beech twigs"" scratch my face and catch at my clothing as I lurched to my feet."										
"""But the next moment I forgot about food. I stood staring, for at no great distance I saw lights."""										
"""Gas lamps. Glimpsed between the trunks of the hilltop trees, they twinkled in the distance like earthbound stars."""										
"""A village. I had come up one side of the hill not knowing, and too weary to realise, that a village lay on the other side."""										
"""A town, rather, being large enough to have gas laid on."" ""A town with, perhaps, a railway station?"""										
"""And even as I thought it, there came floating to my ears, across the dark of night, a train whistle’s long tenor call."""										
"""Very, very early the next morning, I stole out of the"""										
"""beech woods—so early, I hoped, that few if any folk would catch sight of me. Not that I was afraid anyone would recognise me. It was just that it would look a bit odd for a well-dressed widow, on foot, with a carpet- bag, to emerge from such primitive lodging."""										
"""Yes, a widow. Head to toe, I wore the black garb of mourning I had taken from my mother’s closet. The costume, by indicating that I had been married, added a decade or more to my age, yet allowed me to wear my comfortable old black boots, which would not be noticed, and my hair in a simple bun, which I could manage. Best of all, it made me nearly unrecognisable. Hanging from the brim of my black felt hat, a dense black veil enveloped my entire head, so that  I looked rather as if I intended to raid a beehive. Black kid-leather gloves covered my hands"""										
"""— I had made sure of this detail, as I lacked a wedding ring—and dull black silk covered me from my chin to my black-booted toes."""										
"""Ten years ago, Mum had been thinner, so her dress fit me nicely with my"										
"corset barely tightened at all; indeed, no corset would have been necessary if it were not to support my improvised baggage in the necessary areas. What I’d packed on the bicycle I"""										
now carried  in the  carpet-bag or in my pockets.										
"""Disliking to dangle a reticule, my mother had provided all her dresses with ample pockets for handkerchief, lemon drops, shillings and pence, et cetera. Blessings be upon the stubbornly independent head of my mother, who was also the one who had taught me to ride a bicycle. I regretted having to abandon that faithful mechanical steed to the beech woods, but  I most certainly did not regret abandoning my ugly taupe suit."""										
"""In the grey half-light of daybreak, I stole downhill along a hedge to a lane. Very stiff from yesterday’s exertions, I realised that my aches and pains were actually a blessing: they forced me to walk slowly. Thus, at a ladylike gait in keeping with my disguise, I made my way along the lane  to a gravelled road, and so into the town."""										
"""Dawn had progressed to a dull sunrise, threatening rain. Shopkeepers  were just opening their shutters, the ice-man was hitching up his sway- backed nag to make his rounds, a yawning maid threw a bucket of something unspeakable into the gutter, a ragged woman swept a street crossing."										
"Newsboys heaved stacks of the morning edition towards the curb. A match- seller sitting at a corner—a beggar, really— cried, “Let there be light; a match for the gentleman?” Some of those who passed by were indeed gentlemen in top-hats, others workmen in flannels and caps, yet others nearly as ragged as himself, but he cried “gentleman” to them all. He made no attempt to sell a match to me, of course, for ladies did not smoke."""										
"""BELVIDERE TONSORIUM declared gold letters painted on the glass of a door beside a red-and-white spiral-striped pole. Ah, I had heard of a town called Belvidere, satisfactorily distant from Kineford. Looking about me, I saw SAVINGS BANK OF BELVIDERE carved upon the stone lintel of a stately building nearby. Very good; I had achieved my goal. Well done, I thought, picking my way between horse droppings, for a mere girl of limited  cranial capacity."""										
"""“Onions, potatoes, parsnips!” called a man pushing a barrow."""										
“Fresh carnation for the gent’s buttonhole!” cried a shawled woman offering flowers from a basket.										
“Shocking kidnapping! Read all about it!” bellowed a newsboy. Kidnapping?										
“Viscount Tewksbury snatched from Basilwether Hall!”										
"""I did indeed want to read all about it, but first I wanted to find the railway station."""										
"""With this in mind, I followed a top-hatted, frock- coated, kid-gloved gentleman who was positioning a fresh carnation upon his lapel. Formally dressed, perhaps he was going to the city for the day."""										
"""Affirming my hypothesis, soon I heard the rumble of an approaching  engine crescendo to a roar that shook the pavement beneath my boots. Then I could see the peaked roof and turrets of the station, with the clock in its tower reading just half past seven, and I could hear the shriek and whine of brakes as the train pulled in."""										
"""Whether my unwitting escort travelled to London, I will never know, for as we approached the station platform, my attention was all taken up by the scene unfolding there."""										
"""A gawking crowd had gathered. A number of constables formed a line to keep the onlookers back, while yet more officials in blue uniform strode forward to meet the newly arrived train, an engine pulling a single car importantly labeled   POLICE EXPRESS. Out of this stepped several men  in travelling cloaks. These swept the ground impressively enough, but the ear-flaps of the matching cloth caps done up in bows atop their heads"										
"looked like little bunny ears, quite silly, I thought as I started to"										
"edge through the crowd towards the ticket window of the station."""										
"""As if I had walked into a pot on the boil, all around me bubbled excited voices."""										
"""“It’s Scotland Yard, right enough. Plainclothes detectives.”"""										
"""“I heard they sent for Sherlock Holmes, too—” Oh, my goodness. Halting, eagerly I listened."""										
"""“—but he won’t come, he’s called away by family—”"" ""The speaker passed by, confound it, and I heard no"" ""more of my brother, although other babble aplenty."""										
"“My cousin’s the second assistant upstairs maid at the big house—” ""“The duchess has gone clean out of her head, folk say.”"""										
“—and she says they—”										
“And the duke is fit to be tied.”										
“Old Pickering at the bank says they’re still waiting for a ransom demand.”										
“Who’d want the boy if not for ransom?”										
"""Hmm. It would seem that the “Shocking Kidnapping!” had taken place close by. Indeed, watching the detectives pile into quite a lovely landau, I  saw them being trotted off towards a green park not far beyond the  railway station. Above the trees rose the grey Gothic towers of—from the talk around me— Basilwether Hall."""										
How interesting.										
But first things first. I must purchase a ticket—										
"""However, according to the large schedule posted upon the station wall, there would be no lack of trains to London. Every hour or so all day and into the evening."""										
“Duke’s son gone missing! Read all about it!” shrieked a newsboy standing beneath the schedule.										
"""While no believer in providence, I had to wonder how chance had placed me here, on this scene of crime, and my brother the great detective elsewhere. My thoughts became unruly, and their lure irresistible."										
"Abandoning my attempt to reach the ticket window, I bought a newspaper instead."""										
CHAPTER THE NINTH										
"""AT A TEA-SHOP BESIDE BELVIDERE STATION, I"""										
"""sat at a corner table, facing the wall in order to lift my veil. I  needed to do this for two purposes: to breakfast upon tea and scones, and to look at young Viscount Tewksbury Basilwether’s photographic likeness."" ""Occupying nearly half the front page of the newspaper, a  formal studio portrait showed the boy dressed in—heavens have mercy, I hoped he wasn’t made to wear velvet and frills every  day—but how else might he go about with his fair  hair, rendered artistic by the curling tongs,  hanging to his shoulders? All too apparently his mother had fallen in  love with Little Lord Fauntleroy, wretched book responsible for the agonies of a generation of well-born boys. Got up in the height of Fauntleroy fashion, little Lord Tewksbury wore patent leather buckle slippers, white stockings, black velvet knee pants with satin bows at the sides, and a satin sash under his black velvet jacket with its flowing white lace cuffs and collar. He stared at the camera with no expression whatsoever on his face, but I thought I saw a trace of hardness around  his jaw."""										
DUKE’S HEIR OF										
TENDER YEARS HORRIFICALLY MISSING .										
"""screamed the headline. Reaching for a second scone, I read:"""										
A scene of the most alarming implications										
"""unfolded early Wednesday morning at Basilwether Hall, ancestral home of the Dukes of Basilwether, near the thriving town of Belvidere, when an under-gardener noticed that one of the French doors of the billiards room had been broken into. The household staff then being alerted, next"										
"discovered that the lock of the room’s interior door had been forced, the"										
"woodwork showing the marks of a vicious knife. Naturally fearful of burglary, the butler checked"""										
the silverware pantry and discovered nothing										
"""missing. Nor were the plate and candelabra of the dining room disturbed, or the innumerable valuable contents of the drawing-room, the gallery,  the library, or anywhere else in Basilwether Hall’s extensive premises."										
"Indeed no further doors had been forced downstairs. It was not until the upstairs maids commenced carrying the customary ewers of hot water to the ducal family’s quarters for their matutinal ablutions, that Viscount Tewksbury, Marquess of Basilwether’s chamber door was found standing  ajar. His furnishings, strewn about the room, bore mute witness to a desperate struggle, and of his noble personage there was no sign. The Viscount, Lord Basilwether’s heir and, indeed, his only son, a mere  twelve years of age—"""										
"""“Twelve?” I exclaimed, incredulous."""										
"""“What is that, madam?” asked the hostess behind me."""										
"""“Ah, nothing.” Hastily I lowered the newspaper to the table and my veil to cover my face. “I thought he was younger.” Much younger, in his curled tresses and storybook suit. Twelve! Why, the boy should be wearing a sturdy woollen jacket and knickers, an Eton collar with a tie, and a decent, manly haircut—"""										
"""Thoughts, I realised, all too similar to those of my brother Sherlock upon meeting me."""										
"""“Poor lost Lord Tewksbury, you mean? Aye, his mother has kept him a baby. One hears she’s wild with grief, unfortunate lady.”"""										
"""I pushed back my chair, left a halfpenny on the table, exited the tea- shop and, after entrusting my carpet-bag to a porter at the railway station, walked towards Basilwether Park."""										
"""This would be far better than searching for bright pebbles and birds’ nests. Something truly valuable was to be found, and I wanted to find it. And I believed perhaps I could. I knew where Lord Tewksbury might be. I just knew, although I did not know how to prove it."""										
All the way up the long drive lined with giant poplar										
"""trees I walked in a kind of trance, imagining where he might have gone."" ""The first gates stood open, but at the second gates, a lodge-keeper stopped me, his duty being to keep out the idle curious, newspaper reporters, and the like. He asked me, “Your name, ma’am?”"""										
"""“Enola Holmes,” I said without thinking."""										
"""Instantly I felt so inexcusably stupid, I wanted to expire on the spot. Running away, I had of course chosen a new name for myself: Ivy Meshle. “Ivy” for fidelity—to my mother. “Meshle” as a kind of cipher. Take “Holmes,” divide it into hol mes, reverse it into mes hol,  Meshol,     then spell it the way it was pronounced: Meshle. It would be a rare soul who could connect me with anyone else in England (“Are you related to the Sussex Meshles of Tottering Heath?”), much less to anyone named Holmes. Ivy Meshle. So clever. Ivy Meshle! And now  like an imbecile I had told this lodge-keeper, “Enola Holmes.”""    ""Judging by his blank face, the name meant nothing to him. Yet. If any foxhunt after me had begun, the view-halloo had not yet reached this area or this man. “And your business here, Mrs., um, Holmes?” he asked."" ""Having been a fool, I decided, I might as well make the most of it. I said, “As Mr. Sherlock Holmes could not himself attend to  this matter,  he asked me to come and have a look about.”"""										
"""The lodge-keeper’s brows lurched, and he blurted, “You’re related to the detective, ma’am?”"""										
"""“Indeed,” I replied, my tone quelling, and I swept past him, marching into Basilwether Park."""										
"""The hall, rising before me at the circular end of the drive, would have held ten of Ferndell—but I did not approach its wide marble steps or its"										
"pillared doors. My interest did not lie in that noble residence, nor in"										
"the formal gardens all around it, studded with topiaries and glittering with well-disciplined roses. Veering away from the drive, I walked across an expanse of lawn towards Basilwether Park proper, that is to say,  the woodlands surrounding the hall and gardens."""										
"""Not forest. Woodlands. Stepping beneath the trees,"""										
"""expecting to meet a few thickets, a patch of moss or two, some kindred brambles, I found instead soft grass trimmed short enough to play croquet upon."""										
"""A tame place, this. Walking along, I discovered no interesting hollows, dells, or  grottos. Basilwether Hall’s estate was flat and featureless. How disappointing, I thought as I emerged onto lawn again. The only possibility might be—"""										
"""“Mrs. Holmes!” cried a wild soprano voice, and I turned to see the distraught mother, the duchess, hurtling towards me. I knew it was she because of the richness of her day dress, the heavy braiding and embroidery on her silver-grey capelet over a gown of shirred mauve drawn back from a pleated underskirt of rose-grey satin. But there was nothing of richness in the tears stark on her staring face, and nothing of the nobility in the way she flew at me between the trees like a bloodied swan, wings of nearly white hair falling out from under her hat to flap about her shoulders."""										
"""A pair of frightened-looking maids came hurrying up behind her. In their aprons and white lace caps, they must have run straight out of the house after her. “Your Grace,” they cried, coaxing,  “Your Grace, please come in, do, and have a cup of tea. Please, it’s going to rain.” But the duchess seemed not to hear them."""										
"""“Mrs. Holmes.” I felt her bare hands trembling as she grasped at me.  “You are a woman, with a woman’s heart; tell me, who could have done this evil thing? Where could my Tewky be? What am I to do?”"""										
"""Holding her quivering hands in both my own, I felt grateful for the  heavy veil hiding my dismayed face, grateful for the gloves that  separated my warm flesh from hers, so cold. “Have courage, um, Your  Grace, and, um . . .” I fumbled for words. “Be of good hope.” Then I  could blunder on. “Let me ask you this: was there anywhere . . .” The way she doted on him, she might have spied or surmised. “A place on the grounds where your son would go to be alone?”"""										
"""“To be alone?” Her swollen, red-rimmed eyes blinked  at  me  utterly without  comprehension."""										
“Whatever do you mean?”										
"""“Sheerest nonsense,” proclaimed a resonant alto voice behind me. “This insignificant widow knows nothing. I will find the lost child, Your Grace.”"""										
"""Turning, I found myself looking at the most extraordinary woman, even taller than I and far bulkier, shockingly hatless and uncoifed. Her wiry hair spread about her head, shoulder to shoulder, for all the world as if she were a white lamp and her hair a red shade: not chestnut, not auburn, but true red, almost scarlet, the colour of a poppy blossom, while her eyes glared out of her rice-powdered face as sooty dark as a poppy’s  black heart. So arresting were her hair and face that I barely noticed  her clothing. I have only a vague impression of cotton, perhaps from  Egypt or India, in some barbaric crimson pattern, petalled around her massive body as wildly as the poppy-hued hair around her face."""										
"""The duchess gasped, “Madame Laelia? Oh, you’ve come, as I begged you to, Madame Laelia!”"""										
"""Madame what? Madame Spiritualist Medium, I surmised, this being one role in which women, the morally and spiritually superior gender, commanded greater respect than men. But such characters—or charlatans, as my mother would have it—evoked the spirits of the dead. And surely the duchess most"										
"fervidly hoped her son was not one of those, so what was this oversized"										
"female doing—"""										
"""“Madame Laelia Sibyl de Papaver, Astral Perditorian, at your service,” the statuesque one proclaimed. “Whatever is lost, I can surely find, for the spirits go everywhere, know all, see all, and they are my friends.”"" ""The duchess now seized upon this woman’s large yellow-gloved hands, while I, like the two meek maids, stood there with my mouth airing, thunder-struck. But, in my case, not by this woman’s grotesque appearance. Nor by her talk of spirits. While I wanted to believe that I would somehow persevere after my corporeal body was gone, I imagined that if it were so, I would have better things to do than to knock on furniture, ring bells, and shake tables. Nor did the word astral impress me. Of all that Madame Laelia Sibyl de Papaver had said, it was a single word that"""										
rendered me motionless and speechless. That word: Perditorian.										
"""From the Latin perditus, meaning “lost.” Perditorian: one who divines that which is lost."""										
"""But . . . but how dare she, with all her blather of spirits, title herself so nobly? Knower of the lost, wise woman of the lost, finder of the lost: That was my calling."""										
"""I was a perditorian. Or I would be. Not astral. Professional. The world’s first professional, logical, scientific perditorian."""										
"""All in one gasping breath of inspiration, I knew this as surely as I knew my real name was Holmes."""										
I scarcely noticed how the maids escorted the										
"""duchess and Madame Laelia into the hall, perhaps for tea, perhaps for a séance; I did not care. Back in the woodlands that encircled Basilwether Park, I walked at random, oblivious to the drizzle that had begun to  fall, my thoughts running wild with excitement, building upon my original scheme to find Mum."""										
"""That plan remained simple: Upon arriving in London, I would hail a cab, tell the driver to take me to a respectable hotel, and have dinner and a good night’s sleep. Staying at the hotel until I found suitable lodgings, I would set up bank accounts—no, first I would go to Fleet Street and place encrypted “personals” in the publications I knew Mum read. Wherever she was, would she not continue to read her favourite journals? Of  course. I would wait until Mum replied. Just wait."""										
"""That would suffice, if—as I often found it necessary to reassure myself— if indeed Mum was alive and well."""										
"""In any event, wait was all I could do."""										
"""Or so I had thought. But now, now that I had found my calling in life, I could do so much more. Let my brother Sherlock be The World’s Only  Private Consulting Detective all he liked; I would be The World’s Only Private Consulting Perditorian. As such, I could associate with professional women who met in"""										
their own tea-rooms  around London—women who										
"""might know Mum!—and with the detectives of Scotland Yard—where Sherlock had already filed an inquiry concerning Mum—and with other dignitaries, and also perhaps with disreputable persons who had information to sell, and—oh, the possibilities. I was born to be a perditorian. A finder of loved ones lost. And—"""										
"And I ought to stop dreaming about it and start doing it. Right now. ""The only possibility, as I had been thinking before I was interrupted, seemed to be perhaps a tree."""										
"""Backtracking through the boringly well-tended woodlands of Basilwether Park, I concentrated now on looking for that particular tree. It would be located not too near Basilwether Hall and its formal garden, and not too near the edge of Basilwether Park, either, but in the middle of the woods, where adult eyes would be least likely to spy. And like my refuge"										
"under the overhanging willow in Ferndell’s fern dell, it had to be"										
"distinctive in some way. Different. Worthy of being a hideaway."" ""The thin rain had stopped, the sun had come out, and I had nearly circled the estate before I found it."""										
"""It was not one tree, actually, but four growing from a single base. Four maple seedlings had planted themselves in the same place, and all had survived to form a symmetrical cluster whose four trunks rose at a steep angle from one another, with a perfect square of space in between."" ""Planting one booted foot upon a gnarl and grasping a handy bough, I  swung myself up to stand perhaps three feet above the ground inside the encompassing V’s of the trunks, a perfect axis at the hub of a foursquare leaf-encircled universe. Delightful."""										
"""Even more delightful: I saw that someone, presumably young Lord Tewksbury, had been here also. He had hammered a large nail—a railroad spike, actually—into the trunk of one of the trees on the inside. No one walking by was likely to notice it, but there it sturdily jutted."""										
"""To hang something upon? No, a much smaller nail would  have served that purpose. I knew what this"""										
spike was for.										
To set one’s foot upon. To climb.										
"""Oh, glorious day, to climb a tree once again after so many weeks of ladylike confinement . . . But oh, consternation, for what if anyone observed me? A widow lady in a tree?"""										
"""I looked all around, saw no one, and decided to chance it. Ridding myself of my hat and veil, concealing them in the leaves overhead, I hoisted my skirt and petticoats into a bunch above my knees, securing it with hatpins. Then, setting my foot upon the spike and seizing a branch, up I went."""										
"""Twigs snagged my hair, but I didn’t care. Except for the usual jabs in the face, it was as easy as climbing a ladder—a good thing, as my sore limbs protested every inch of the way. But Lord Tewksbury, happily for me, had driven railroad spikes wherever no maple boughs presented themselves. Brilliant lad, this young viscount. No doubt he had obtained the spikes from the tracks that ran past his father’s estate. I hoped no trains had derailed on his account."""										
"""After I had climbed twenty feet or so, I stopped to see where I was going. I tilted my head back—"""										
Good heavens.										
He had built a platform in the tree.										
"""A structure not at all visible from the ground when the trees were in leaf, but from my perch I could admire it clearly enough: a square framework made of scraps of unpainted lumber, set between the four  maples. Supporting beams ran from trunk to trunk, wedged into place on tree limbs or else secured with cord lashed around the corners. Planks  lay across the beams to form a crude sort of floor. I imagined him scavenging that wood from cellars or stable lofts or goodness knew where, dragging it here, maybe creeping out at night to lift it into the tree with a rope and set it in place."""										
"""And all the time his mother applying the curling tongs to his hair, and clothing him in satin, velvet, and lace. Heaven have mercy."""										
"""In one corner of the platform he had left an opening by which to enter. As I popped my head through, my"""										
respect for young Lord Tewksbury only increased. He										
"""had suspended a square of canvas, perhaps a wagon cover, as a roof over his hideaway. In the corners he had placed saddle-blankets presumably “borrowed” from the stable, folded to serve as cushions to sit upon. Into the four tree trunks he had driven nails from which hung loops of knotted cord, pictures of boats, a metal whistle, all sorts of interesting things."""										
I crawled in to look.										
But at once my attention was arrested by a shocking sight in the middle										
of the plank floor.										
"""Scraps, fragments, rag-tag bits cut and torn so dreadfully that it took me a moment to recognise what they were: black velvet, white lace, baby- blue satin. Remains of what had once been clothing."""										
"""And atop that heap of ruins, hair. Long, curled locks of golden hair."" He must have shorn his head to stubble. After ripping his finery to shreds."										
Viscount Tewksbury had entered this refuge. Of his own free will. No kidnapper would have or could have brought him here.										
"""And by the looks of things, Viscount Tewksbury had left this hideaway as he had come, of his own free will. But no longer to be Viscount  Tewksbury, Marquess of Basilwether."""										
CHAPTER THE TENTH										
"""ON THE GROUND AGAIN, WITH MY SKIRTS down"""										
"""where they belonged, my black hat pinned in place to cover my unkempt head, and my veil pulled down to conceal my face, I walked blindly. I did not know what to do."""										
"""Around one gloved forefinger I twisted a lock of long, blond, curled hair. The rest I had left where I had found it. I imagined the wild birds taking it away strand by strand to line their nests."""										
"""I thought of the mute, enraged message the runaway boy had left in his secret sanctuary."""										
I thought of the tears I had seen on his mother’s face. Poor lady.										
"""But equally, poor lad. Made to wear velvet and lace. Almost as bad as a steel-ribbed corset."""										
"""Not at all incidentally, I thought of myself. I, Enola, on the run just like young Lord Tewksbury, except that it was to be hoped he’d had the sense to change his name. Fool that I’d been, coming here as Enola Holmes, I had put myself in jeopardy. I needed to get away."""										
"""Still, I must reassure the unfortunate duchess—"""										
"""No. No, I should leave Basilwether Park as quickly as possible, before—"""										
“Mrs. Holmes?”										
"""Stiffening, I found myself on the carriage-drive directly in front of Basilwether Hall, uncertain whether to advance or retreat, when a voice called to me from above."""										
“Mrs. Holmes!”										
"""Hiding the lock of blond hair in the palm of one hand, I turned to see a man in a travelling cloak hurrying down the marble steps towards me. One of the detectives from London."""										
"""“Excuse me for presuming upon your acquaintance,” he said when he stood before me, “but the lodge-keeper informed us you were here, and I"" ""wondered . . .” He was a small, weasel-like man,"""										
"""hardly the muscular sort one expected of a police department, yet fearsome in the way his beady eyes peered at me, like shiny black ladybugs trying to crawl right through my veil. In a rather high-pitched voice he went on, “I am an acquaintance of Mr. Sherlock Holmes. My name is Lestrade.”"""										
"""“How do you do.” I did not offer to shake hands. “Very well, thank you. I must say it is an unexpected"""										
pleasure to meet you.” His tone hinted for information.										
"""He knew my name was Enola Holmes. He could see that I was a widow. Therefore he titled me Mrs., but if I were merely related by marriage to the Holmes family, he must have been thinking, why would Sherlock send me in his stead? “I must say Holmes has never mentioned you to me.”"" “Indeed.” Politely I nodded. “And have you discussed your family with him?”"										
"""“No! Er, I mean, there has not been occasion.”"""										
"""“Of course not.” My tone remained, I hope, bland, but my thoughts twittered like a chaffinch. This snoop would tell Sherlock he had met me,"										
"and under what circumstances, at his first opportunity. No, worse! As an"										
"inspector for Scotland Yard, at any minute he might receive a wire concerning me. I had to get away before that happened. He seemed suspicious of me already. I had to distract Inspector Lestrade from inspecting me."""										
"""Opening my gloved hand, I uncoiled a lock of fair hair and held it out to him."""										
"""“Regarding Lord Tewksbury,” I said in a commanding manner mimicking  that of my famous brother, “he has not been kidnapped.” I waved aside the inspector’s attempt to protest. “He has taken matters into his own hands; he has run away. You would, too, if you were dressed like a doll in a velvet suit. He wants to go to sea on a boat. A ship, I mean.” In the young viscount’s hideaway I had seen pictures of steamships, clipper ships, all sorts of sea-faring vessels. “In particular, he admires that huge monstrosity, the one that looks like a floating cattle trough with sails on top and paddle-wheels on the sides, what is its name? The one that laid the"""										
transatlantic cable?”										
"""But Inspector Lestrade’s gaze  remained riveted upon  the blond, curling tresses  in my hand. He babbled, “What . . . where . . . how do you deduce . . .”"""										
"""“The Great Eastern.” At last I remembered the name of the world’s  largest ship. “You will find Lord Tewksbury at a seaport, probably the docks of London, in all likelihood applying for a berth as a seaman or a cabin boy, as he has been practising tying sailors’ knots. He has cut his hair. He must have gotten some common clothing somehow, perhaps from the stable boys; you might want to question them. After such a transformation, I imagine no one at the station recognised him if he went by train.”"""										
“But the broken door! The forced lock!”										
"""“He did that so that you would search for a kidnapper rather than a runaway. Rather mean of him,” I admitted, “to worry his mother so.” This thought made me feel better about telling what I knew. “Perhaps you could give Her Grace this.” I thrust the lock of hair at Inspector Lestrade. “Although truly, I do not know whether it will help her feel better or make her feel worse.”"""										
"""Gawking at me, Inspector Lestrade seemed barely to know what he was  doing as his right hand rose to accept the tresses of a duke’s son."" ""“But—but where did you find this?” With his other hand he reached for me as if to grip me by the elbow and draw me into Basilwether Hall. Stepping back, away from his grasp, I became aware of a third party to the conversation. At the top of the marble stairway, looming amid balustrades and Grecian columns, Madame Laelia watched and listened."""										
"""I lowered my voice to answer Inspector Lestrade quite softly. “In the first floor, so to speak, of a maple tree with four trunks.” I pointed in its direction, and as he turned to look, I walked away, rather more quickly than a lady should, down the drive towards the gates."""										
“Mrs. Holmes!” he shouted after me.										
"""Without altering the rhythm of my pace or looking back, I lifted one hand in a polite but dismissive wave, imitating the way my brother had waggled his walking"""										
"""stick at me. Restraining an impulse to run, I kept"" walking."										
"""When I had passed through the gates, I breathed out."" ""Not having ridden in a train before, I was surprised to"""										
"""find the second-class passenger car divided into little parlours for four people each, with leather seats facing each other as in a carriage. I had imagined something more open, like an omnibus. But not so: A conductor led me down a narrow aisle, opened a door, and willy-nilly I"										
"found myself compartmented with three strangers, taking the one remaining"										
"place, which faced the rear of the train."""										
"""Moments later I felt myself being carried, slowly at first but moment by moment accelerating, backwards towards London."""										
"""All too apt a position, as Inspector Lestrade had so reversed my affairs that I could no longer foresee what lay ahead."""										
"""Since he had talked with a nitwit widow named Enola Holmes, and would tell my brother Sherlock, I needed to abandon my nearly perfect disguise."""										
"""Indeed, I needed to completely reconsider my situation."""										
"""Sighing, perched on the edge of my seat because of my bustle—or rather, luggage—I braced myself against my backwards progress. The train lurched and swayed as it rumbled along at least twice as fast as any bicycle had ever skimmed down any hill. Trees and buildings whipped past the window at a speed so tumultuous that I had to avoid looking out."""										
"""I felt a bit ill, for more than one reason."""										
"""My safe and comfortable plans for cab, hotel, genteel lodgings, and  quiet waiting would no longer serve. I had been identified. Seen. Either Lestrade or my brother Sherlock would trace a young widow’s steps through Belvidere and find that I had gotten onto the afternoon express train to the city. So much for misdirecting my brothers towards Wales! Although they could have no idea of my financial well-being, nevertheless, they would know now that I’d gone to"""										
"""London, and there was nothing I could do about it."""										
"""Except leave London as soon as I arrived, by the next train to anywhere?"""										
"""But surely my brother would inquire of the ticketing agents, and now my black dress marked me. If Sherlock Holmes found that a widow had gotten  on the train to, say, Houndstone, Rockingham, and Puddingsworth, he would investigate. And surely he would find me more easily in Houndstone, Rockingham, Puddingsworth, or any such place than in London."""										
"""Moreover, I wanted to go to London. Not that I thought Mother was there— quite the opposite, actually—but I would best be able to find her from there. And I had always dreamt of London. Palaces, fountains, cathedrals. Theatres, operas, gentlemen in tails, and ladies dripping with diamonds."" ""Also—and rumbling backwards towards the great city, I found myself smiling beneath my veil at this thought—the idea of hiding beneath my brothers’ noses appealed all the more now that they knew. I would revise their opinion of the cranial capacity of their accidental younger  sister."""										
Very well. London it was.										
"""But circumstances had changed so that I could not, upon arriving in the city, take a cab. Sherlock Holmes would inquire of the cabdrivers."										
"Therefore, I would have to walk. And night was coming on. But I could not now allow myself a hotel room. Surely my brother would inquire at all the hotels. I would have to walk for quite a distance to get myself well away from the railway station—but where to go? If I took the wrong street, I might find myself in company with someone who was not a nice sort of person. I might encounter a pickpocket, or—or perhaps even a cutthroat."" Most unpleasant."										
"""And just as I thought this, averting my eyes from the dizzying scene outside the train’s window, I glanced up instead at the glass in the corridor door."""										
I very nearly screamed.										
"""There, like a full moon rising, a large face peered into the compartment."""										
"""With his nose actually pressed against the glass,"""										
"""the man looked in, scanning each occupant in turn. With no change in his cold expression he fixed his shadowy gaze on me. Then he turned away and moved on."""										
"""Gulping, I looked around at my fellow passengers to see whether they,"										
"too, were frightened. It appeared not. In the seat next to me, a  workman in a cap sprawled snoring, his rough square-toed boots thrust out into the middle of the floor. Opposite him, a fellow in shepherd’s-plaid trousers and a homburg hat studied a newspaper which, judging by etchings of jockeys and horses, concerned itself with the racetrack. And next to him, opposite me, a squat old woman fixed me with her cheery gaze."" ""“Something the matter, duckie?” she inquired."""										
"""Duckie? A most peculiar mode of address, but I let it pass, asking merely, “Who was that man?”"""										
"""“What man, ducks?”"""										
"""Either she hadn’t seen him at all, or it was perfectly normal for large bald men wearing cloth caps to peer into railroad parlours, and I was being a fool."""										
"""Shaking my head dismissively, I murmured, “No harm done.” Although my heart declared me a liar."""										
"""“Yer looking a bit white under all that black,” my new acquaintance declared. Common, toothless crone, instead of a proper hat she wore a  huge old- fashioned bonnet with a brim that flared like a fungus, tied with an orange ribbon under her bristly chin. Instead of a dress she wore a fur wrap gone half bald, a blouse somewhat less than white, an old purple skirt with new braid stuck on its faded hem. Peering at me like a robin hopeful of crumbs, she coaxed, “Yers a recent loss, duckie?”"""										
Oh. She wanted to know about my fictitious dear departed husband. I nodded.										
“And now yer bound ter London?” Nod.										
"""“It’s the old story, isn’t it, ducks?” The vulgar old woman leaned towards me with as much glee as pity. “Catched yerself a likely ’un, ye did, but now he’s"""										
died”—such was the brutal word she used—“gone										
"""and died on you, he has, and left you wit’out the means to feed yerself? And ye, as yer lookin’ so sick, maybe wit ’is child in yer belly?”"""										
"""At first I could scarcely understand. Then, never having heard anything so unwhisperable stated out loud, and in a public place, yet, in the presence of men (although neither of them seemed to notice), I found myself shocked speechless. A fiery flush heated my face."""										
"""My friendly tormentor seemed to consider my blush to be affirmation. Nodding, she leaned even closer to me. “And now yer thinking ye can find yerself summat to support ye in the city? ’Ave ye ever been t’London before, m’dear?”"""										
I managed to shake my head.										
"""“Well, don’t be makin’ the old mistake, duckie, no matter what the gentlemuns promise.” She leaned closer, as if telling me a great secret, yet did not lower her voice. “If ye need a few pennies to yer pocket, ’ere’s the dodge: take a petticoat or two out from under yer dress—”""    ""I truly thought I would faint. The workman, blessedly, snored on, but the other man unmistakably lifted his newspaper to hide his face."" ""“—won’t never miss ’em,” the toothless crone gabbled on. “Why, many’s a woman in London hain’t got a petticoat to ’er name, and ye with ’alf a dozen, I’ll warrant by the puffing and the rustling of ’em.”"""										
"""I desperately wanted the journey and this ordeal to end, so much so that I risked a look at the window. Houses upon houses whisked past the glass now, and taller buildings, pressed together, brick to stone."""										
"""“Take ’em to Culhane’s Used Clothing on Saint Tookings Lane, off Kipple Street,” relentlessly continued the hag, whose squat presence now reminded me more of a toad than a robin. “Down in the East End, ye know. Ye can smell yer way there by the docks. And mind, once ye find Saint Tookings Lane, don’t go to one of them other dealers, but straight to"										
"Culhane’s, where ye’ll get a fair sum for yer petticoats, if ’em’s real"										
"silk.”"""										
The man with the newspaper rattled it and cleared										
"""his throat. Gripping the edge of my seat, I leaned away from the shocking hag as far as my bustle would allow. “Thank you,” I muttered, for while I had no intention of selling my petticoats, nevertheless this dreadfully common old woman had helped me."""										
"""I had been wondering how I was to dispose of my widow’s clothing and get something else. Of course, I had plenty of money to order anything I wanted, but the construction of clothing takes time. Moreover, surely my brother would inquire of the established seamstresses, and surely I would be remembered if, all clad in black, I were fitted for anything except more black, or grey with perhaps a touch of lavender or white. After the first year in mourning, that was all one was supposed to wear. Yet, given my brother’s cleverness, none of that would do. I could not merely modify my appearance; I needed to transform it completely. But how? Pluck garments off of washing- lines?"""										
"""Now I knew. Used clothing shops. Saint Tookings Lane, off Kipple Street. In the East End. I did not think my brother was likely to inquire there."" ""Nor did I think—as I should have—that I would risk my life, venturing there."""										
CHAPTER THE ELEVENTH										
FROM MY SEAT ON THE TRAIN I CAUGHT only										
"""fleeting glimpses of London. But when I emerged from Aldersgate Station, meaning to walk briskly away, instead I stood for a moment gazing at a metropolis so dense and vast. All around me towered a man- made wilderness, buildings taller and more forbidding than any trees that ever were."""										
My brothers lived here?										
"""In this—this grotesque brick-and-stone parody of any world I had ever known? With so many chimney- pots and roof-peaks looming dark against a lurid, vaporous orange sky? Lead-coloured clouds hung low while the setting sun oozed molten light between them; the Gothic towers of the city stood festive yet foreboding against that glowering sky, like candles on the Devil’s birthday cake."""										
"""I stared until I grew aware of hordes of indifferent city-dwellers brushing past me, going about their business. Then I took a deep breath, closed my mouth, swallowed, and turned my back to this curiously ominous sunset."""										
"""Here in London, just as anywhere else, I told myself, the sun went down in the west. Therefore, forcing my flabbergasted limbs to move, I walked down a broad avenue leading in the opposite direction—for I wanted to go east, towards the used clothing stores, the docks, the poor streets."										
"The East End."""										
"""Within a few blocks I walked into narrow streets shadowed by crowded buildings. Behind me the sun sank. In the city night, no stars or moon shone. But swatches of yellow light from shop windows draped the  pavement, seeming to drag down the intervening darkness all the blacker, darkness out of which passersby appeared like visions, vanishing again in a few steps. Like figures out of a dream again they appeared and disappeared on the corners, where gas street-lamps cast wan skirts of light."""										
"""Or figures out of a nightmare. Rats darted in and out of the shadows, bold city rats that did not run away as I walked by. I tried not to look at them, tried to"""										
pretend they were not there. I tried not to stare at an										
"""unshaven man in a crimson cravat, a starveling boy with his clothing in rags, a great brawny man wearing a bloodied apron, a barefoot Gypsy woman on a corner—so there were Gypsies in London, too! But not the proud"										
"nomads of the country. This was a dirty beggar, all grimed like a"										
"chimney-sweep."""										
"""This was London? Where were the theatres and the carriages, the jewelled ladies in fur wraps and evening gowns, the gold-studded gentlemen in  white ties and cutaway tails?"""										
"""Instead, like a kind of walking doghouse, along came a pale man wearing sign-boards, front and back:"""										
For										
IRREPROACHABLE HAIR GLOSS										
Use										
Van Kempt’s Oil of Macassar										
"""Dirty children swirled around him, taunting, knocking his dented derby off his head. A capering girl shrieked at him, “Where do ye keep the mustard?” Evidently a great joke, for her mates laughed like little banshees."""										
"""The dark streets rang with such noise, shopkeepers roaring at the street urchins, “Be off with you!” while wagons rattled past and a fishmonger cried, “Fresh haddock fer yer supper!” and sailors shouted greetings to one another. From an unswept doorway a stout woman shrieked, “Sarah!"										
"Willie!” I wondered if her children were tormenting the board- man. Meanwhile, folk brushed past me, chatting in vulgarly loud voices, and I walked faster, as if I could somehow escape."""										
"""What with so many strange sights and so much commotion, small wonder I didn’t hear the footsteps following me."""										
"""I did not notice until the night deepened and darkened—or so it seemed at first, but then I realised it was the streets themselves that had grown grimmer. No more shops gave light, only glaring public houses""  ""on the corners, their drunken noise spilling into the"""										
"""darkness. I saw a woman standing in a doorway with her face painted, red lips, white skin, black brows, and I guessed I was witnessing a lady of the night. In her tawdry low-cut gown she reeked so badly of gin that I could smell it even above the stench of her seldom-washed body. But she was not the only source of odour; the whole East End of London stank of boiled cabbage, coal smoke, dead fish along the nearby Thames, sewage in the gutters."""										
And people. In the gutters.										
"""I saw a man lying drunk or sick. I saw children huddled together like puppies to sleep, and I realised they had no homes. My heart ached; I wanted to awaken those children and give them money to buy bread and meat pies. But I made myself walk on, lengthening my stride. Uneasy. Some  sense of danger—"""										
A dark form crawled along the pavement in front of me. Crawled. On her hands and knees. Her bare feet dragging.										
"""I faltered to a halt, staring, struck motionless and witless by the  sight of an old woman reduced to such wretchedness, with only a single torn and thread-bare dress inadequately covering her, no underpinnings beneath it. Nothing on her head, either, not even so much as a rag of cloth, and no hair. Only a mass of sores covered her scalp. I choked back a cry at the sight, and dully, creeping at a snail’s pace on her knuckles and her knees, she lifted her head a few inches to glance at me. I saw  her eyes, pallid like gooseberries—"""										
But I had stood still a moment too long. Heavy footsteps sounded behind me.										
"""I leapt forward to flee, but it was too late. The footfalls rushed upon me. An iron grip grasped my arm. I started to scream, but a steely hand clamped over my mouth. Very close to my ear a deep voice growled, “If you move or cry out, I will kill you.”"""										
"""Terror froze me. Wide-eyed, staring into darkness, I couldn’t move. I could barely breathe. As I stood gasping, his grip left my arm and snaked around me,"""										
"""clasping both arms forcibly to my sides, pressing my"""										
"""back against a surface that might as well have been a stone wall had I not known it to be his chest. His hand left my mouth, but within an instant, before my trembling lips could shape a sound, in the dim night I saw the glint of steel. Long. Tapering to a point like a shard of ice. A knife blade."""										
"""Dimly, also, I saw the hand that held the knife."""										
"A large hand in a kidskin glove of some tawny colour. ""“Where is he?” the man demanded, his tone most menacing."""										
What? Where was who? I could not speak. “Where is Lord Tewksbury?”										
It made no sense. Why would a man in London be accosting me about the noble runaway? Who could know I had been in Belvidere?										
"""Then I remembered the face I had seen pressed against the glass, peering into the train compartment."""										
"""“I will ask you once more, and once only,” he hissed. “Where is Viscount Tewksbury, Marquess of Basilwether?”"""										
"""It must by then have been past midnight. Shouts blurred by ale still rang from the public houses, along with bawdy off-key singing, but the cobblestones and pavements stood empty. What I could see of them."										
"Anything could have lurked in the shadows. And this was not the sort of place where one could hope for help."""										
"""“I—I, ah . . . ,” I managed to stammer, “I have no idea.”"""										
"""The knife blade flashed under my chin, where, through my high collar, I could feel its pressure against my throat. Gulping, I closed my eyes."" ""“No games,” my captor warned. “You are on your way to him. Where is he?”"""										
"""“You are mistaken.” I tried to speak coolly, but my voice shook. “You are labouring under some absurd delusion. I know nothing of—”""    “Liar.” I felt murder in his arm muscles. The knife"										
"""jumped, jerked  in his hand, slashing at my throat,"""										
"""finding instead the whalebone of my collar. With what could have been my last breath I screamed. Twisting in the cutthroat’s grip, flailing, I lashed upwards and backwards with my carpet-bag, feeling it hit his face before it flew out of my grasp. He cursed fearsomely, but although his hold on me loosened, he did not let go. Shrieking, I felt his long blade stab at my side, strike my corset, then stab again, seeking a passageway to my flesh. Instead, it slit my dress, a long, ragged wound, as I tore away from him and ran."""										
"""I cried, “Help! Someone help me,” blundering into darkness, running, running, I knew not where."""										
"""“In here, ma’am,” said a man’s voice, high and squeaky, out of the shadows."""										
"""Someone had after all heard me crying for help. Nearly sobbing with relief, I turned towards the voice, plunging down a narrow, steep alley between buildings that reeked of tar."""										
"""“This way.” I felt his skinny hand take my elbow, guiding me a crooked way towards something that glimmered in the night. The river. My guide pulled me onto a narrow wooden walkway that shifted beneath my feet."" ""Some instinct, a misgiving, made me balk, my heart beating harder than ever."""										
“Where are we going?” I whispered.										
"""“Just do as yer told.” And in less time than it takes to tell it, he had twisted my arm behind my back, shoving me forward, towards I knew not what."""										
"""“Stop it!” I braced the heels of my boots against the planks, suddenly more furious than afraid. I had, after all, been mauled about, had lost my carpet-bag, had been threatened by a knife, my clothing ruined, my plans also in tatters, and now the one whom I had thought to be my rescuer seemed to be turning into a new enemy. I became wrought. “Stop, villain!” I shouted as loudly as I could."""										
“Hold yer tongue!”										
"""Twisting my arm painfully, he gave a hard shove. I could not help stumbling forward, but I continued to call out. “Curses! Let go of me!”"""										
Something heavy clouted me over my right ear. I fell sideward into darkness.										
It is not fair to say that I fainted. I have never fainted										
"""and I hope I never do. Say, rather, that for some time I was knocked out of my senses."""										
"""When I blinked and opened my eyes, I found myself awkwardly half sitting, half lying on an odd sort of curved plank floor, my hands bound behind my back and my ankles similarly tied, with rough hemp cord, in front of me."""										
"""Swinging from a crude plank ceiling close overhead, an oil lamp gave off a hot, choking odour as it leaked a dim light. I saw big stones grouped around turpentine-coloured water near my feet, as if in awful travesty of my favourite dell at home. The floor seemed to move beneath me. I felt light-headed. Closing my eyes, I waited for my sickness to pass."""										
"""But it did not pass. My sense of movement, I mean. And, I realised, I  was light-headed only because my captor, whoever he was, had taken my hat away, probably for fear of its pins. My head, clad in only its own snaggled hair, felt exposed, and my world seemed to jolt and rock, but I was not ill."""										
"""I was, rather, lying in the cellar of a boat."""										
"""The hull, I mean. I remembered that was what they called it. While I had no experience of barges and ships and such, I had ridden in a rowboat a time or two, and I recognised the floating, bumping motion of a small craft in its stall, so to speak. In the water but with its head tied to a post. The ceiling where the lamp swung was the underside of a deck. The filthy puddle at my feet was called “bilge,” and the stones, I believe, were “ballast.”"""										
"""Opening my eyes, peering into the gloom, I scanned my shadowy prison and realised that I was not alone."""										
"""From the opposite side of the hull, with his hands behind his back and his bound ankles just across the bilge from mine, a boy faced me."" Studied me."										
Scowling dark eyes. Hard jaw.										
"""Cheap, ill-fitting clothing. Bare feet that looked soft,"" ""sore, pale."""										
An uneven stubble of fair hair.										
"""And a face I had seen before, although only upon the front page of a newspaper."""										
"""Viscount Tewksbury, Marquess of Basilwether."" CHAPTER THE TWELFTH"										
BUT—BUT THAT WAS ABSURD. IMPOSSIBLE. He										
was supposed to be running away to sea.										
"""Quite without any proper introduction I exclaimed, “What in Heaven’s name are you doing here?”"""										
"""He arched his golden brows. “You presume an acquaintance, miss?”""    ""“For mercy’s sake, I presume nothing.” Indignation and surprise spurred"										
"me to sit up straight, not without difficulty. And ill temper. “I knowwho you are, Tewky.”"""										
“Don’t call me that!”										
"""“Very well, Lord Tewksburial-at-sea, what are you doing barefoot in a boat?”"""										
"""“One might with equal justice ask what a snip of a girl is doing all gadded up as a widow.” Sharpening, his tone grew ever more aristocratic."" ""“Oh,” I shot back, “a cabin boy with an Eton accent?”"""										
“Oh. A widow with no wedding ring?”										
"""Not being able to see my hands bound behind my back, I hadn’t realised. But now, propped upright by my bustle and working my fingers against the"										
"cords that bound my wrists, I exclaimed, “What did he take my gloves"										
"for?”"""										
"""“They,” corrected His Lordship the Viscount. “Plural. Two of them. They wanted to  steal your ring, and found none.” Despite his arrogant, lecturing air, I could see how ashen his face was, could see his lips trembling as he spoke. “They went through your pockets also, finding a few shillings, some hairpins, three licorice sticks, a rather filthy handkerchief—”"""										
"""“Indeed.” I tried to quell this recitation, for the thought that, while I was unconscious,  strange men had put their hands into my pockets—the very idea made me shudder. Thankfully, they had not actually touched my person, for my improvised wearable baggage remained where it belonged. I could feel bust enhancer, hip regulators, and dress improver occupying their positions."""										
"""“—a comb, a hairbrush, a flowery little booklet of"" some sort—”"										
"""My heart panged as if he had just killed my mother before my eyes. My eyes burned. But I had to bite my lip, for this was neither the time nor the place to mourn my loss."""										
"""“—and, as one side of your dress is sliced wide open, a glimpse of that scandalous pink corset you’re wearing.”"""										
"""“Nasty boy!” My misery fueled anger. Hot with embarrassment and quivering with fury, I flared at him, “You deserve to be right where you are, bound hand and foot—”"""										
"""“And how do you, dear girl no older than I, deserve the same?”"""										
“I am older!” “How much older?”										
"""I almost told him before I remembered I must reveal my age to no one. Confound him, he was clever."""										
"""And, despite his bravado, frightened. As frightened as I was."""										
"""After taking a deep breath, I asked him softly, “How long have you been imprisoned here?”"""										
"""“Only an hour or so. While the little one was snatching me, it seems, the big one was following you for some reason. I—”"""										
"""He broke off as heavy footsteps sounded overhead. They halted, a square of lantern light opened at the far end of our prison, and I found myself watching the rather ludicrous sight of a man appearing from the back and from the bottom up, rubber boots first, as he descended into our den by a ladder."""										
"""“No more’n an hour ago,” he said to someone up above as he climbed down; I recognised his squeaky voice. Skinny, stunted, bent, this man cowered like a much-kicked and underfed mongrel. “Found him right where ye tole  me in yer wire, moochin’ about the docks where they berth the Great Eastern. We know what ter do wid ’im, but wot about the girl?”"""										
"""“Much the same,” growled the other man’s voice as"""										
"""he descended in his turn. I knew that voice, too, and watched stoically as black-booted feet were followed by hulking limbs clad in dark clothing that might once have belonged to a gentleman, although now gone to seed. His pale kid gloves, I could see in the light of the lantern he bore,  were yellow. Many gentry, men and ladies alike, wore kid gloves, often yellow, serving to advertise a certain social class."""										
"""When the back of the massive man’s head came into view, however, I saw that he wore not a gentleman’s hat, but the cloth cap of a labourer.""  ""I was prepared, then, when he turned around and I saw his face."""										
"""It was, indeed, the cold white face that had peered like a baleful moon into my railway car compartment. Or a baleful white skull; as he removed his cap I saw that he was quite bald, disgustingly so, like a maggot, except for bristles of wiry reddish hair protruding from his ears."""										
"""“I thought ye were after ’er only in case I missed me mark,” said the other."""										
"""“To make doubly sure, yes,” drawled the big bald one, “but also because"										
"she says her name is Holmes.” As he spoke to his companion, he watched my face with malicious enjoyment, smirking as my eyes flew open and my jaw dropped. I could not help showing my shock, for how did he know who I  was? How could he possibly know?"""										
"""Satisfied by my reaction, he turned back to his companion. “She says she’s related to Sherlock Holmes. If that is true, there is swag to be got for her.”"""										
"""“Why’d ye try to kill ’er, then?”"""										
"""So this bulky man with the hair in his ears was, as I had surmised, the cutthroat who had attacked me."""										
"""He shrugged his burly shoulders. “She vexed me,” he said with chill indifference."""										
"I managed to close my gaping mouth as things began to make sense. He had been looking for me on the train. He had followed me from the station. ""Yet—yet nothing made sense. Why, accosting me, had he thought I knew where Lord Tewksbury was?"""										
"“Shrew.” The cutthroat looked straight at me with ""eyes like black ice, something—I could not think what"""										
"""—familiar about that glare, although I’ll not deny it scared me so badly that I shook. He told me, “Girls hereabouts mostly don’t have the shillings for corsets. I’ve sliced a few bellies wide open in my time."										
"Don’t cross me again.”"""										
"""I sat silent, unable to think of any suitable reply. In truth, frightened witless."""										
"""But then the other man, the rickety one, spoilt the effect by saying to his companion, “Well, ye better watch yerself and don’t make Sherlock ’Olmes vexed, either. Wot I hear, ye don’t fool wit’ that gent.”"""										
"The big one turned on him. “I fool with whomever I please.” His tone menaced like a knife blade. “I’m going to sleep. You guard these two.” ""“That were my intention anyway,” the other muttered, but only after the hulking brute had disappeared back up the ladder."""										
"""The skinny one, the mongrel watchdog, settled himself"""										
with his back against the ladder and stared at us with vicious little eyes.										
"""I demanded of him, “Who are you?”"""										
"""Even in the dim light of the oil lamp, I could see that his yellow grin lacked several teeth. “Prince Charmant der Horseapple, at yer service,” he told me."""										
An obvious falsehood. I scowled at him.										
"""“While we’re doing introductions,” said Lord Tewksbury to me, “what, pray tell, is your name?”"""										
I shook my head at him.										
"""“No talkin’,” Squeaky Voice said."""										
"""“What,” I asked him coldly, “do you and your friend intend to do with us?”"""										
"""“Take ye dancin’, dearies. I told ye, no talkin’!” Unwilling to amuse this reprehensible person any longer, I lay down sideward on the bare planks, with the cut portion of my dress beneath me. I closed my eyes."" ""It is difficult to sleep, or even pretend to sleep, with"""										
"""one’s hands tied behind one. To make matters worse,"""										
"the tips of my steel corset ribs jabbed me painfully under the arms. ""My thoughts, as well as my body, were far from comfortable. The mention of “swag” indicated money, leading me  to conclude that I was being held for ransom. I could not imagine a more humiliating way to be returned to my brothers, who would no doubt then send me off to boarding school with a spanking. I wondered whether they would take my money away. I wondered how, how, how the big ruffian had learned of me to follow me, and, even more appalling, had learned   of  Viscount  Tewksbury  and wired  his mongrel-like accomplice about him. I wondered what “much the"										
"same” meant. Quivering with terror, I urged myself to be alert for any"										
"chance to escape. Yet at the same time I knew I would be wise to breathe more calmly, stop trembling, muster my energy, try to sleep."""										
"""Because of the shape of the boat’s hull, I lay on an incline somewhat hammock-shaped but far from restful, even with all the padding I wore. Shifting my limbs, I tried for a less cramped position, without success, because the steel ribs of my confounded corset now not only tormented my arms, but at the other end they poked through the rent in my dress, reminding me all too plainly of how that cutthroat’s knife had—"""										
"Steel. Knife. I lay very still. ""Oh. Oh, if only I could do it."""										
"""After a moment’s thought, I opened my eyes just enough to take a peek at Squeaky the Watchdog through my eyelashes. How fortunate that my modesty had made me lie upon my right side, facing him, in order to conceal my corset. He still sat with his back against the ladder, but with his head lolling. Asleep."""										
"""And why not, for as long as he remained in position by the ladder, how could we possibly get past him? But I would deal with that problem later."""										
"""As silently as I could, I turned the upper portion of my person, trying to place my bound wrists against a protruding rib of my corset."""										
"""It was not easy, as the slash in my dress was at the"""										
"""side. But by straining one arm to the utmost while propping myself up on the elbow of the other, clenching my teeth to keep from making a sound, I contrived to loop the cord that bound my wrists around the tip of a steel corset stay."""										
"""So twisted that I could barely move, I nevertheless managed to force back the heavily starched fabric that sheathed the steel."""										
"""Then, even more contorted, I began trying to cut through the cords."" ""Not once did I look at Lord Tewksbury. I tried to think of him as little as possible, and then only to assure myself he must be asleep. Otherwise, I would have felt the mortification of my posture beyond bearing."""										
"""Back and forth, back and forth, with great difficulty I sawed away with my hands and arms while pressing my bound wrists against the steel."										
"Painfully, and for quite a long time. I cannot say how many foul hours ensued, for there was no telling night from day in that hole. There was  no telling, either, whether I was making any progress against the cords, for I could not see what I was doing. I could feel that I was cutting myself. But I clenched my jaw and bore down all the harder, my gaze fixed on the sleeping guard, my ears straining to hear beyond my own panting breath. I felt more than heard the lapping of waves, the slopping of  bilge water, the occasional muffled bump as the boat drifted against its pier—"""										
"""Squeaky twitched as if pestered by a flea. I had just time to flatten myself, hands hidden from his view behind my back, before he opened his eyes."""										
"""“See ’ere,” he complained, glaring at me, “what yer rockin’ the bloody boat fer?”"""										
CHAPTER THE THIRTEENTH										
"""I FROZE, COWERING, LIKE A RABBIT IN a thicket."""										
"""But from the other side of the hull an imperious voice spoke. “What for? I desire this boat to rock. I demand, nay, I command this boat to rock.” And rock it did, for there sat young Viscount Tewksbury, Marquess of Basilwether, leaning back to front to back again, disturbing our prison’s repose."""										
“Ye there!” Squeaky’s flinty stare turned to him. “Stop ’at.”										
“Make me.” Haughtily Lord Tewksbury met his glare and kept rocking.										
"""“Ye want me to make you?” Squeaky lurched to his feet. “Think yer a"										
"toff, do you? By jingo, I’ll show ye.” Fists balled, he walked over to Tewksbury, and in so doing he turned his back to me."""										
"""I sat up and twisted around, leaning to one side, fumbling again to find the corset rib with my bound hands."""										
"With vicious force our captor kicked young Lord Tewksbury in the leg. ""The boy made no sound, but I could have cried out. I wanted to strike, seize, stop that nasty man. Indeed, I lost my head entirely, struggling against the cords that bound my wrists so wildly that it seemed I would wrench my arms out of their sockets."""										
Then something snapped. It hurt terribly.										
"""Squeaky kicked Tewksbury again. “Keep going,” the boy said. “I like it.” But his strained voice showed that he lied."""										
"""My arms hurt so badly that I thought I had broken a bone, rather than the cord, until I found myself looking at my own hands, which had presented themselves in front of my face like disreputable strangers. Battered, bloodied. Rags of hemp dripping from their wrists."""										
"""“Ye like it? I’ll see ye like it,” squeaked our scurvy wretch of a guard, kicking Lord Tewksbury for the third time, quite hard.""    This time Tewky whimpered."										
"""And simultaneously I rose to my feet, my ankles still bound—but walking was not necessary, as I stood directly behind our captor. My hands, which seemed to know what to do better than I did, selected a large rock from the ballast even as Squeaky cocked his leg to kick again. Before he could do so, I hoisted my primitive weapon and brought it down with great decision upon his head."""										
"""He fell without a sound, splashed into the bilge water, and lay still."" I stood gawking at him."										
"""“Idiot, untie my hands!” cried Lord Tewksbury."""										
"""The downed man continued as he was. Inert, but breathing."" ""“Untie me, fool!”"""										
The boy’s peremptory tone prodded me into motion. I turned my back on him.										
"""“Ninny, what are you doing?”"""										
"""I was preserving my scant remaining modesty, although I did not tell him so. Unbuttoning part of my bodice, I reached deep into my frontal baggage and found the penknife I had removed from my drawing kit and stowed in my “bust enhancer” along with a pencil and some folded sheets of paper."										
"After buttoning up again, I opened the penknife, stooped, and cut the cords away from my ankles."""										
"""Unable to see these proceedings through my expanse of black skirt, Lord Tewksbury stopped giving orders and actually began to beg. “Please."										
"Please! I saw what you were doing and I helped you, didn’t I? Please, you—”"""										
"""“Shhh. In a moment.” Once I had freed my feet, I turned, stepped past the motionless form of our guard, then leaned over the captive boy. With one quick snick I severed the cord binding his hands behind his back."										
"Then I handed him the knife so he could free his feet himself. On the skirt of my ruined dress I wiped the blood from my wrists. I looked at the cuts—not so deep as to be dangerous—then felt at my hair, which had fallen out of any semblance of a"""										
bun to straggle around my shoulders. Finding a few										
"""hairpins in its tangles, I tried to close the rip in my dress with them."""										
"""“Do come on!” urged young Viscount Tewksbury, now on his feet with my penknife, still open, gripped like a weapon in his hand."""										
"""He was right, of course; there was no time for me to make myself presentable. Nodding, I approached the ladder that led to freedom, with Lord Tewksbury at my side. As we reached it, however, we hesitated, eyeing each other."""										
“Ladies first?” said His Lordship uncertainly.										
"""“I yield in favor of the gentleman,” I responded, thinking only that a girl must never place herself in such a position that a male might look  up her skirt. Not at all thinking of what might await us above.""  ""Nodding, still clutching the penknife, Tewksbury climbed the ladder."" ""Light blinded me as he lifted the hatch. Night had passed into day, whether morning or afternoon I knew not. I retain only a vague, blinking, silhouetted impression of the cautious way the young viscount put his  head forth and looked around. Quite silently he laid the hatch cover aside, climbed out, and beckoned urgently to me."""										
"""Climbing as quickly as I could, I realised he was waiting for me, his hand extended to help me out of the hold. Despite having called me in close succession an idiot, a fool, and a ninny, the boy showed traces of gallantry. He would have been wiser to flee without me. But it seemed right that, as we had been prisoners together, we would escape together. Certainly it had not occurred to me to leave him behind, and evidently he had not thought to leave me behind, either."""										
"""Reaching the top of the ladder, I grasped his hand"""										
—										
"""An awful voice roared a curse such as I had never previously heard or imagined. As my head rose above the level of the hatch, I saw a tall, massive, scarlet form hurtle out of a cabin and across a too- brief expanse of deck towards us."""										
"""In that awful moment I learned that gentlemen, or at"""										
"""least a certain ungentle man, wore unmentionables made of blood-red flannel from wrist to ankle."""										
I screamed.										
"""“Come on!” Springing to his feet, Tewksbury all but lifted me off the ladder, flinging me away from the charging red menace. “Run!”"""										
He looked as if he intended to hold the brute off with his little penknife.										
"""“You run.” Hoisting a wad of skirt and petticoat above my knees with one hand, I grabbed him by the collar with the other as I fled to the far end of the boat. Together—although necessarily I let go of him—we leapt  across a yard of water to the wobbly planking of what I suppose might be called a pier. Then, hauling at my skirt with both hands, I ran as fast  as I could along that narrow, unsteady path."""										
“You won’t get far!” bellowed a ferocious voice from the boat. “Just wait till I get some clothes on me and my hands on you!”										
"""Being long of limb, I like to run, but not tripping over my own confounded clothing, and definitely not on a labyrinth of rotting green- slimed planks. A bewilderment of piers and brackish water, wharves and cat-walks, and yet more stinking water lay between us and the taverns and warehouses that rose at the edge of the Thames."""										
"""“Which—way?” gasped Tewky—for I could no longer think of him as lord, viscount, duke’s son; he was my comrade now, panting along right behind me."""										
“I can’t tell!”										
"""Surrounded by tar-dark water, at a dead end, we slipped and skittered, turning to dart back. Once again an arm of water blocked our way. I began to shake, for if I fell into that black river, it would be the end for  me; I would drown. I doubted whether Tewksbury could swim, either. But there was no time for dithering. At too scant a distance our massive  enemy sprang out of his cabin again, with some decent covering thrown  onto his person this time, roaring, “I’ll kill you both!” Like a charging bear he lunged from his craft onto the labyrinthine wharf."""										
"""Even worse, a small, crooked form followed him the"""										
way a starved dog follows a beggar. Evidently I had not hit Squeaky hard enough.										
"""“Jump!” I wailed, and with my skirts billowing I leapt for another"										
"pier."""										
"""It rocked beneath me, but I managed to keep my footing, and just as I gasped for air, it rocked again, even worse, as Tewksbury landed with a thump beside me. Lacking breath to scream outright, I squeaked like a clothesline reel. Tewky grabbed my arm, crying, “Run!” and this time he led as we fled. At some point, he had lost my penknife; his right hand trembled weaponless. My shaking redoubled, for I felt the heavy tread of the cutthroat quaking the dock beneath us."""										
"""“Oh, no!” I cried as we slid to a halt at the end of another pier that led nowhere."""										
Tewky said something unrepeatable.										
"""“Shame on you. This way.” Turning, I took the lead again, and in a few moments, at last we scrambled to firmer footing of cobbles, brick, and mortar. But our enemies, who knew their way, reached shore just as we did, only a stone’s throw behind us. I could see the blood on Squeaky’s head and the rage in his squinty eyes. I could see the hair in the big cutthroat’s ears and the wrath reddening his platter face. Blood on the moon, an ill omen."""										
"""I confess I screamed again—indeed, I shrieked like a shot rabbit. Blindly, with Tewky’s hand in mine, I fled up a narrow street and around a corner. “Hurry!” Zigzagging between heavily loaded wagons drawn by straining draft horses, we ran at an angle across the street to the next turning."""										
"""By now out of breath, moist of face and dress, all too aware of the heat of the day, I could still hear running footsteps following us."" ""Tewky was dropping behind. Dragging him along, I could feel a wince of pain in his every stride. His feet. Bare, sore, hitting on hard stone. And it was all uphill, fleeing from the river."""										
“Come on!”										
"""“Can’t,” the boy panted, trying to yank his hand out"" of mine. I tightened my grip."										
“Indeed you can. You must.” “You—go. Save yourself.”										
"""“No.” Blinking away my blind panic, I looked around me as we ran. We seemed to be reaching the end of wagons and docks and warehouses. Now we ran along a poor street of shabby lodgings and even shabbier businesses: a fishmonger’s, a pawn shop, an umbrella mender. And street vendors:  “Live mussels, live oysters!” “Sweet ices here! Cold sweet strawberry ices!” There were people about, a dust- man with a donkey-cart, men with barrows of scrap metal, women and girls afoot in caps and aprons that should have been white but had grimed to the colour of mushrooms. People, but not the sort likely to help us, and not enough of them so that a barefoot, fleeing boy could escape notice, let alone a breathless, dishevelled, bareheaded girl in the torn, blood- smeared dress of a widow."""										
"""“Stop, thieves!” bellowed a voice behind us, hoarse but still roaring."										
"“Stop those two scoundrels! Villains! Pickpockets!”"""										
"""Faces turned to stare at Tewky and me as we fled through a street of  junk stores: secondhand furniture, used clothing, hats refurbished, shoes and boots resoled, used clothing again. Faces seemed to rise out of a  haze of heat and terror, loom for a moment, then flash by."""										
"""One of the faces I knew in passing, although I could not think where I had seen it before."""										
"""Then, as we ran on, I remembered."""										
"""“Tewky! Quick!” Dodging off the street, I darted up a narrow passageway between two ramshackle boardinghouses, turned past the corner of a cow shed, and fled through the stinking mews behind the buildings, redolent of donkey, goat, goose, and hen. I turned again—"""										
"""“You can’t get away!” a fearsome voice roared from behind the cow shed, far too close for comfort."""										
"""“Give it up!” yelled another voice, squeaky."""										
"""“Idiot,” Tewksbury cried, evidently addressing me. “Why are we going in a circle? They’ll catch us!”"""										
“You’ll see. Follow me.” Letting go of his hand and										
"""also of my remaining shreds of modesty, I ripped open the buttons of my upper bodice. Running down quite a filthy alley, I thrust my forearm into my frontal baggage and, my fingers encountering a packet of crisp papers, withdrew one. Hiding it in my palm as I rounded the final corner back  into the street, I dashed towards a used clothing store."""										
"""The proprietor stood outside the door, enjoying the street scene and the cooling breeze. But when she saw me making towards her, her cheery expression chilled and turned to alarm. Rather than resembling a robin or a toad, she looked like a mouse under the paw of the cat. “No!” she  gasped as I ran up to her. “No, Cutter would kill me. It’s more than my life is worth—”"""										
"""There was no time for discussion. Tewky and I had only a moment before the two villains would round the corner and sight us again. In that moment, I thrust a bank note for a hundred pounds into the hands of, presumably, Mrs. Culhane, grabbed Tewky by the sleeve, and dragged him with me into Culhane’s Used Clothing Emporium."""										
CHAPTER THE FOURTEENTH										
"""GASPING FOR BREATH, WE DARTED INTO A"""										
"""gloomy, dirty, cluttered room that felt as close as an oven. From one side wall hung a number of long cloaks and mantles; for quick concealment we pressed ourselves into their shadowy folds. Trembling, hands clenched, I watched the front door, waiting to see whether my bribe would succeed."" “Hide under a table!” Tewky whispered."										
"""I shook my head. Poised to flee, staring out the front door and window, I saw how folk scattered, giving way, as the hulking cutthroat and his squeaky mongrel of a companion barrelled down the middle of the street, glaring in all directions. I saw the big ruffian grab a loiterer by the collar, almost lifting the man off his feet, shouting into his face. The poor fellow gestured in our direction."""										
"""And where Mrs. Culhane had gone, I did not know."""										
"""But there she was again, standing with her back to me; she looked like a plaid tortoise with a limp bow of apron strings across its middle."""										
Our moon-faced enemy and his follower strode up to her. Towered over her. Even rickety Squeaky stood taller than she did. And I’m not sure I could have braved the ferocity in their glares.										
But the squat old woman occupied that doorway like a plug. I saw her shake her head. I saw her gesture towards the far end of the street. I saw the sunlit doorway as a halo of glory surrounding her.										
I saw the two villains turn away.										
"""Hanging on to somebody’s old cape for support, I sagged against the wall with relief."""										
"""Tewky folded like an easel, sinking to the floor."""										
"""Mrs. Culhane quite sensibly did not come in at once, but stood at the door for a while longer. By the time she entered, I had recovered my strength, found a back room with a water tap, soaked a rectangle of faded red flannel, and applied it to Tewky’s face."""										
"""When he sat up, I transferred  my attention to his"""										
"""suffering feet. Dabbing with the rag, trying to remove dirt and blood without hurting him too much, I was studying his raw, sore soles when our toad-like saviour came in, shut and locked her shop door, drew down its blind, and waddled over to me."""										
"""“So,” she said, “one day yer a grievin’ widder, and the next day it turns out yer a stringy-hair girl runnin’ from Cutter and Squeaky.”"" “Indeed? And who might the gentlemen be? We were not introduced.”"										
"“I don’t doubt it. That’s me stomach binder yer using fer a rag.” ""I stood up. “Merciful heavens, I think I’ve paid you for it.”"""										
"""She faced me unsmiling, no cheery robin chirp in her manner or voice"										
"today, no “duckie” for me. She said, “Wot ye gave me went to the neighbours. Others who saw.”"""										
"""This, I realised, must be partly true. She had disappeared from the doorway to bargain with bystanders for their silence."""										
But by the shrewd glint in her eye I knew it was also partly false. She had promised the neighbours some shillings or a few pounds at the very most.										
"""Still, there was something honest in the grimness of her face as she told me, “There’d best be more where that came from. Cutter would slice me inside out if he knew, make no mistake about it. It’s my life I’m risking fer ye.”"""										
"""“If you provide what we need,” I told her, “there will be more.”"""										
So it was that the next day Tewky and I slipped out										
"""of her shop by the back door, strengthened and transformed. We had taken refuge in her rather slovenly kitchen—for she lived in three rooms on the first floor, over the shop—and we had accepted her lumpy porridge gratefully. We had slept, I on her foul- smelling sofa, Tewky on quilts on her floor. We had taken sponge baths. We had applied bag balm (ointment for cow  udders) to Tewky’s feet, then"""										
wrapped  them  in  bandages.  We  had  outfitted										
"""ourselves in apparel from Culhane’s Used Clothing, burning our old things in the kitchen stove."""										
"""We had not talked, not even to tell one another our names. Our sour- faced hostess had asked us no questions, and we had offered no information. Tewky and I did not even converse between ourselves, lest she overhear. I did not trust her; I would not have put it beyond her to separate me from all of my money if she discovered where I kept it."										
"Therefore I never removed my clothing in her presence, and I never removed my corset at all, not even to sleep. That once-despised garment had become my most precious possession—so long as I did not actually tighten it! Its steely protection had saved my life. Its starchy structure supported and concealed the bust enhancer, dress improver, and hip regulators that disguised both me and my financial means."""										
"""I believe and hope that Mrs. Culhane—if that was indeed her name—never discovered this secret. We spoke only to conduct business: Might her shop provide a suit of clothes not too much worn for the boy, and a cap, and  an ample pair of shoes, and thick socks? And for me, a blouse, and a bustled or gored skirt such as a typist or glove-counter girl might wear, made of practical material, with pockets? And a jacket, also with  pockets, its hem flared to fit over the top of the skirt? And gloves not too spoilt, and a hat not too far out of fashion, and would she give me a bit of help with my hair?"""										
"""I felt naked to the eyes of the world, leaving that place without my thick black widow’s veil to cover my face, but the truth was that even my own brothers might not have known me. I stooped, and peered nearsightedly through “pince-nez” eyeglasses clipped onto my nose, perched there like a bizarre metal bird. Over the eyeglasses, a considerable fringe of false hair both decorated and hid my forehead, assisting the pince-nez in altering my profile. And over the hair I wore a straw hat trimmed with bits of lace and feathers, very much like any cheap straw hat worn by any struggling young woman in the city."""										
"""“Now I just need a parasol,” I told Mrs. Culhane.""    She gave me one dyed a hideous but stylish ""chemically derived  green, then escorted us to her"""										
"""back door and held out her hand. Upon her palm I placed, as I had promised, another bank note. We exited, and she closed the door behind us without a word."""										
"""Once we had achieved the street, I shuffled as I walked, acting half blind, feeling my way with the folded parasol. I did this partly as"										
"disguise, and partly so that Tewky, whose feet were still quite sore,"										
"would not appear to struggle along, but rather to walk slowly, accompanying me, for my sake. In our clothing neither new nor worn-out, neither rich nor poor, I hoped we would escape anyone’s attention, for I wanted no one bearing news of us to Cutter."""										
"""But I need not have worried. All around us, folk went noisily about  their business, taking no notice of us at all. London, that great brick- and-stone cauldron of a city, seemed always on the boil with swirling human activity. A man with a barrow cried, “Ginger beer! Fresh cold  ginger beer to cool yer dusty throat!” A water-cart trundled past, followed by boys cleaning the cobbles with brooms. A delivery man  pedalled by on the oddest tricycle I had ever seen, with the two wheels  to the front instead of the rear, and a great box strapped to the handle- bars. On a corner stood three dark-haired children singing in harmony  like angels, in a language I did not know, the middle one with a crockery cup extended for my penny. Just beyond and above them, a ragged man with  a paste can and brush balanced on a ladder, sticking up advertisements  for shoe blacking, anti-rheumatic elastic wrappings, patent safety coffins. Men in white sack jackets and white trousers nailed a quarantine notice onto the doorway of a lodging. I wondered briefly what vile fevers and diseases wafted up from the stinking Thames, and whether I would perish of cholera or scarlet fever for having set foot on Cutter’s vessel."""										
"""Cutter. Charming ruffian. In one of my pockets, along with money and various other useful items I had transferred there from my bust enhancer, I carried a list I had written in some wakeful hours during the night:"""										
Why did  Cutter search the train?										
Why did he followme?										
Why did he think I knew where to find Tewky? What did he want with Tewky?										
Why did he wire Squeaky to look for Tewky on the docks? What did he mean when he said “much the same”?										
Is he in the business of kidnapping?										
"How did he know anything about Tewky and the Great Eastern at all? ""How, indeed? I had told Inspector Lestrade. And Madame what-was-her- name, the Astral Perditorian, had overheard."""										
"""Had Inspector Lestrade told others? Perhaps, eventually, but would he not first have taken steps to confirm my information? Yet that wire must have been sent to Squeaky almost immediately."""										
Hmm.										
"""Such were my thoughts as my limping escort and I walked a few blocks to a better neighborhood. Here we found a park of sorts, a patch of grass with four trees under which women trundled prams and a man with a donkey cried, “Rides, treat yer kiddies, a penny a head.” Beside the park, I saw, stood a number of cabs. I would be able to hire one so my little lordship would not have to walk on his suffering feet."""										
"""So far, much on our guard, we had not spoken at all, but now that we had left Cutter’s haunts behind, I turned to my companion and smiled.""  ""“Well, Tewky,” I said. “Don’t call me that.”"""										
"""I  bristled.    “Very  well,   Lord    Tewksbury  of"""										
"""Basilwether-or-not—” But my annoyance subsided as a thought struck me. I asked, “What do you want to be called? What name had you chosen for yourself when you ran off?”"""										
“I—” He shook his head and turned his face away. “Never mind. It doesn’t matter anymore.”										
“Why? What are you going to do?” “I don’t know.” “Do you still want to go to sea?”										
He swivelled to stare at me. “You know everything. How do you know so much? Who are you? Are you really related to Sherlock Holmes?”										
"""I bit my lip, for I did not feel as if it would be safe to tell him"										
"anything more of myself; already he knew too much. Luckily, at that  moment a newsboy howled from the corner by the cab-stand, “Read all about it! Ransom demand for Viscount Tewksbury Basilwether!”"""										
"""“What?” I exclaimed. “That’s preposterous!” Almost forgetting to peer and shuffle, I scuttled over and bought a newspaper."""										
SENSATIONAL										
DEVELOPMENT IN KIDNAPPING CASE										
"""read the headline over, once again, Tewky’s portrait à la Little Lord Fauntleroy."""										
"""Sitting next to me on a park bench so that we could both see the newspaper at once, Tewky made a muffled sound of dismay. “My picture?”"" ""“The whole world has viewed it,” I told him with, I admit, some degree  of zest. Then, as he did not immediately reply, I glanced at him to see upon his face an expression of fiery red, utterly anguished humiliation."" ""“I can’t go back,” he said. “I’ll never go back.”"""										
"""No longer gleeful, I asked, “But what if someone recognises the picture? Mrs. Culhane, for instance?”"""										
“She? When ever would she look at a newspaper? She can’t read. In those slums nobody can read. Did										
you see any newsboys at the docks?”										
"""He was right, of course, but rather than admit it, I devoted my attention to the text of the article:"""										
A most surprising turn of events took place										
"""this morning with the arrival of an unsigned ransom demand at Basilwether Hall, Belvidere, scene of the recent disappearance of Viscount Tewksbury, Marquess of Basilwether. Despite Chief Inspector Lestrade’s most astute discovery of the young lord’s cache of nautical paraphernalia in a treetop hideaway—"""										
"""“Oh, no,” Tewky whispered, anguished anew. Wincing, I read on without comment."""										
—and his subsequent energetic inquiries at										
"""the London docks, where he located several eyewitnesses who claimed to have seen the missing youngster upon the very day of his disappearance—"" ""Which was, I realised, just one day after that of my"""										
"""own disappearance. So much had happened since, it was hard to believe that only three days ago, I had left Ferndell Hall."""										
"""—it would now appear that the Viscount, heir"""										
"""to the Basilwether title and fortune, has indeed been kidnapped. Delivered in the morning post, a brief missive pasted together out of letters cut from periodicals demanded a large sum, the amount of which the family desires to remain undisclosed. Lacking any proof that Lord Tewksbury has indeed fallen into the hands of this unknown individual or individuals, the authorities advise against paying the ransom. Famed Medium and Astral Perditorian Madame Laelia Sibyl de Papaver, however, called in by the Basilwether family at the onset of the crisis, advises most strongly that the ransom, which is to be gathered in the form of gold sovereigns and guineas pending instructions for delivery,"""										
"""should be paid, as her communications with"""										
spiritual manifestations advise her that Viscount Tewksbury is indeed  held captive and in danger of his very life unless the kidnappers receive the full cooperation of his family. Madame Laelia . . .										
"""There was more, but at this point I ceased reading."""										
"""Instead, I sat staring at—at the cab-stand, really. That was what stood before Tewky and me: sporty hansom cabs and clumsy but more roomy four- wheelers, glossy horses and scrawny horses swishing their tails while munching on nosebags of oats, portly cabdrivers and shabby cabdrivers loitering, waiting for fares. But I was not in fact seeing any of this. I was trying to remember what Madame Laelia had looked like, but so much"										
had happened in the past three days that I retained only an impression of										
"red hair, large face, large body, large hands in yellow kid gloves—"" ""A small voice said, “I have to go back.”"""										
"""It took me a moment to turn and focus on Tewky, pale and handsome and very young, returning my gaze."""										
"""“I have to go home,” he said. “I can’t let those bloody villains steal from my family.”"""										
"""I nodded. “You have an idea who sent the ransom note, then.”"""										
“Yes.”„										
"""“And you imagine, as I do, that they are still upon the hunt for you.”"" ""“For both of us. Yes, indeed.” “We’d better go to the police.”"""										
“I suppose so.” But his glance slid away.										
"""He studied the tips of his new shoes—new only in a sense, as they had all too clearly been cobbled together from pieces of leather scavenged from old boots."""										
I waited.										
"""Finally he said, “It wasn’t what I expected, anyway. The shipyards, I mean. The water is filthy. So are the"""										
people. They don’t like one if one tries to stay clean.										
"""They think one is a snob. Even the beggars spit on one. Somebody stole my money, my boots, even my stockings. Some people are so mean, they would even steal from the crawlers.”"""										
“The crawlers?”										
"""“Dosses, they call them, because they’re always dozing. I’ve never seen any persons so wretched.” His voice lowered. “Old women with nothing  left, not even strength to stand on their feet. They sit on the workhouse steps, half asleep but with nowhere to lay their heads, too nearly dead even to beg. And if someone gives them a penny to buy tea, they crawl  away to get it.”"""										
"""With a shock to my heart I remembered the hairless old woman I had seen crawling on the pavement, her head all sores."""										
"""“And then they crawl back again,” Tewky said, his voice lower and more struggling by the moment. “And there they sit. Three times a month they are allowed a meal and a night’s sleep in the workhouse. Three times. If they ask for more than that, they are locked up and given three days at hard labour.”"""										
"“What? But I thought the workhouse was supposed to help the unfortunate.” ""“I thought that, too. I went there to ask for shoes, and they . . . they laughed at me and hit me with a stick. Drove me away. And then . . . that nasty man . ."""										
.”										
His memories of Squeaky made his eyes water. He ceased speaking.										
"""“I’m glad you’ve decided to go home,” I said after a moment. “Your mother will be overjoyed to see you. She’s been crying, you know.”"" ""He nodded, accepting without question that I would know this, as I seemed to know everything else."""										
“I’m sure you’ll be able to make her understand you can’t wear those Lord Fauntleroy clothes anymore.”										
"""He said very softly, “Whatever kind of clothes, it doesn’t matter. I never knew . . .”"""										
"He didn’t finish. But I believe he was still thinking ""about the dosses, poor half-alive old women who"""										
"""crawled. Or perhaps about bare, sore feet, and the waterfront, and Squeaky, and being kicked like a dog."""										
"""Two days in London had made me aware, too, of much that I had not known before."""										
"""And now that I did know, my own ill fortunes seemed small enough."""										
"""I stood up and hailed a cab. An open, hansom cab; I wanted us to go in"										
"style. Tewky gave me his hand like a gentleman as I climbed in, as I directed the driver, “To Scotland Yard.”"""										
CHAPTER THE FIFTEENTH										
"""QUITE ASIDE FROM ACCOMPANYING TEWKY, I"""										
had my own errand at Scotland Yard.										
"""“This is lovely!” exclaimed Tewksbury, scanning London from the hansom cab as the horse trotted along, harness jingling, directly in front of us."""										
"""I paid attention only to my own thoughts: Something needed to be done about Cutter and Madame Laelia Sibyl de Papaver, Astral Perditorian. I had no proof, but the more I turned matters over in my mind, the more I considered they might be involved in a kidnapping ring together."										
"Inference: She had told him about me. Who else could have done so? The lodge- keeper, the duchess, her maids? Most unlikely. Of all those whom I had encountered at Basilwether Hall, only Inspector Lestrade and Madame Laelia had heard me describe the whereabouts of Lord Tewksbury. One of those two had contacted Cutter to have him wire Squeaky to take Tewky prisoner. Surely it had not been Lestrade. Conclusion: It must have been Madame Laelia."""										
"""Tewky said, “I never understood why they put the driver way up top in back, so far from the horse. Now I see. It is so that nothing obstructs one’s view.”"""										
"""“Mmm-hmm,” I murmured, continuing my dark thoughts of Madame Laelia. While appearing to be on the side of the angels, the woman had actually allied herself with the devils: Cutter and Squeaky. They kidnapped a victim, I conjectured, and then Madame Laelia was called in for her dubious services, so that while Cutter and Squeaky collected ransom, Madame Laelia was paid handsomely for her spiritual insights into the missing person’s whereabouts. They all profited, and they were all in their foul business together. In Tewky’s case, although initially he had run away, Cutter and Squeaky had seized the opportunity to kidnap him afterward."""										
"""While unsure how to notify the authorities without putting myself in jeopardy, I knew I had to do something to put a stop to this villainy."" ""Tewky said, “How pleasant it is to feel the wind in"""										
one’s face on a hot day.”										
"""Annoying boy, must he chatter like a magpie? Without replying, lips pressed together, I reached into a skirt pocket and pulled out a pencil and a folded piece of paper. Hastily and rather angrily, laying the paper in my lap, I sketched an exaggerated portrait of a man. When Tewky saw what I was doing, he ceased his chitchat to stare."""										
"""“That’s Cutter,” he said."""										
Without comment I finished the likeness.										
"""“That is Cutter, right down to the hair in his ears. You astonish me. How do you draw like that?”"""										
"""Without answering, I turned over the folded paper, and on the fresh surface I sketched another person. Because I found myself in the proper frame of mind, wrought and energetic, I was able to do so without hesitation, without conscious memory, without thought, the pencil strokes coming swiftly to hand from some source deep within my mind."""										
“Who’s that?” Tewky asked.										
"""Again, I did not answer. Finishing the portrait of a large, imposing woman, I unfolded the paper and looked at both sketches at once. The caricature man and the caricature woman stood side by side."""										
At that moment I knew.										
"""Of course. To be a woman, all that was necessary was to put on false hair, various Patent Amplifiers, Enhancers, Improvers, and Regulators, and the necessary concealments: dress, hat, gloves. I of all people should know."""										
"""Tewky saw, too. He whispered, “It’s the same person.”"""										
"""The bright red wig, I thought, to hide the hairy ears and distract attention from the face. And some enhancement of the lips, eyelashes, and eyes, easy enough—face paint. No respectable lady would ever admit to the use of such artifice, but I had heard it was done. Not that this person was either respectable or a lady."""										
"""Tewky demanded, pointing from one drawing to the other, “If that’s Cutter, then who is that?”"""										
"""I told him, although the name meant nothing to him:"""										
“Madame Laelia Sibyl de Papaver.”										
"""“I don’t care if yer the Prince of Wales,” said the"""										
"""sergeant at the desk without so much as lifting his eyes to take a look at us, “ye’ll wait yer turn like everybody else. Have a seat.” His gaze still on his papers and blotter, he flapped a meaty hand towards the hallway behind him."""										
"""I smiled at Tewky, who, having just introduced himself as Viscount Tewksbury Basilwether, seemed inclined either to laugh or cry. “I’ll wait with you,” I whispered."""										
"""And somehow in the course of our visit to Scotland Yard I would accomplish my own business there. As when I had ridden my bicycle away from Kineford, my best plan now seemed not to plan."""										
"""Tewky and I sat on one of many benches ranged along the dark wood- paneled passageway, benches of a singularly adamant uprightness and rigidity, worse than any church pews I had ever experienced. Perched beside me, Tewky muttered, “You’re lucky with all that padding.”"" What a shocking thing to say. “Hush!”"										
“Don’t tell me to hush. Tell me who you are.”										
"""“No.” I kept my voice down, for all along the passageway on other benches sat people waiting to speak with the police. Intent on their own conversations and problems, however, none of them had given us a second glance."""										
"""Tewky had the sense to lower his voice. “But you’ve saved my life, maybe. Or at least my honour. And you"""										
—you’ve done so much for me. I want to thank you. Who are you?” I shook my head.										
"""“Why do you want to look like an old maid?” “Shocking boy, do mind your tongue.” “Shocking girl, am I never to learn your name?”"""										
"""“Shhh!” No, I hoped not, but I did not say so. Instead, I said “Hush!” again, gripping his arm, for just down the passageway from us a door was opening,"""										
and I saw a familiar man stepping out. Two familiar men.										
"""For a moment I truly felt as if I might faint, and not due to any corseting, either."""										
Heaven help me.										
"""One of the men was Inspector Lestrade. But I had realised, deciding to accompany Tewky into Scotland Yard, that I might encounter Lestrade, and I felt sure he would not recognise me as the black-veiled widow he had met briefly at Basilwether Hall."""										
"""No, what made me weak with alarm was the sight of the other man: Sherlock Holmes."""										
"""Mentally I willed myself to keep breathing, to sit naturally, to blend  in with the dark woodwork and the hard bench and the framed etchings on the walls the way a hen partridge blends in with brush. Please, they must not notice me. If either of them recognised me, my few days of freedom were over."""										
"""Slowly they paced towards us, deep in conversation, even though my brother stood so much taller than the ferret-like Lestrade that he had to stoop to put his head close to the lesser man’s. After my first startled"										
"look at them, I turned my eyes to my lap, let go of Tewky, and hid my"										
"clenched, quivering hands in the folds of my skirt."""										
"""“. . . can’t make head nor tail of this Basilwether case,” came Lestrade’s strident voice. “I do wish you would have a look at it, Holmes.”"""										
"""“Holmes?” gasped Tewky, sitting bolt upright at my side. “Is that him? The famous detective?”"""										
"""I whispered, “Do please hush.”"""										
"""I am sure he heard strong emotion in my voice, for he actually obeyed."" ""Sherlock was saying to Lestrade, “Not nearly as fervidly as I wish you would assign more officers to finding my sister.” My brother’s voice, while well in tune, sounded as taut as a violin string. Something in his voice, something unspoken, made a butterfly of emotion flutter painfully in my heart."""										
"""“I would  like to, my dear fellow.” Sympathy in""    ""Lestrade’s voice,  but also a note, I thought, of""  ""gloating. “However, if you cannot give me more to work with . . .”"""										
“The butler confirms that Mother has had no portraits taken of herself or Enola for ten years or more. Confound the woman.”										
"""“Well, we have that sketch your sister drew of her.” Unmistakably I heard a glint of glee in the Scotland Yard inspector’s voice."""										
"""My brother’s hand shot out and caught him by the arm, halting him; the two of them stood directly in front of Tewky and me. Thanks perhaps to providence, perhaps to blind luck, Sherlock stood with his back to me."" ""“Look here, Lestrade.” My brother did not sound angry, not exactly, but his tone, nearly hypnotic in its intensity, made my heart swell with admiration for him and commanded the other man’s fullest attention."										
"Sherlock told him, “I know you think it’s a great blow to my pride, that both my mother and my sister have gone missing, I cannot find a trace of the former, and I have you to thank for information of the latter. But—”"" ""“I assure you,” Lestrade interrupted, blinking, his gaze sliding to one side, “I have thought nothing of the sort.”"""										
"""“Bosh. I am not blaming you for being no worse than your betters.” Brushing aside that perplexing statement with one black-gloved hand, Sherlock riveted the inspector anew with his gaze. “But Lestrade, I want you to understand: You may cross Lady Eudoria Vernet Holmes off your  list. She knew what she was doing, and if she has come in harm’s way, she has only herself to blame.”"""										
"""Pain roused in my heart again, not a butterfly ache, but pain of a different sort. At the time, I did not know of my brilliant brother’s one crippling weakness; I did not understand how melancholia might make him utter such harsh words."""										
"""“However, Enola Holmes is a different matter entirely,” Sherlock was saying. “My sister is an innocent. Neglected, uneducated, unsophisticated, a dreamer. I feel much at fault for not staying on with her, instead of leaving her to the care of my brother,"""										
"""Mycroft. Despite his fine mind, he has no patience."""										
"""He never could understand that it takes time, not just harness, to train a colt. Of course the girl bolted, having more spirit than intelligence.”"""										
"""Underneath my false bangs and pince-nez, I scowled."""										
"""“She seemed intelligent enough when I spoke with her,” said Lestrade. “She certainly deceived me. I would have sworn she was twenty-five, at least. Poised, well-spoken, thoughtful—”"""										
My scowl smoothed away. I quite approved of Lestrade.										
"""My brother stated, “Thoughtful and imaginative, perhaps, but certainly no stranger to the weakness, the irrationality, of her sex. Why, for instance, did she tell the lodge-keeper her name?”"""										
"""“Perhaps out of sheer daring, to get in. She was sensible enough,"										
"afterward, to take herself straight away to London, where it will be very difficult to find her.”"""										
"""“Where anything could be happening to her, even if she were twenty-five. And she is only fourteen.”"""										
"""“Where, as I was saying earlier, anything could be happening to a young person of yet more tender years: the Duke of Basilwether’s son.”"""										
"""At which moment Tewky cleared his throat, said, “Ahem,” and stood up."" ""So, you see, I had no chance to think and, it seemed to me at the time, no choice."""										
I fled.										
"""As the inspector and the great detective turned to gawk at the commonly clad boy, as they blinked and stared, as recognition dawned, I stood up and walked quietly away. I caught only a glimpse of my brother’s face, and had I known how rare a treat it was to see Sherlock Holmes so astonished, I would have enjoyed the moment more. But I did not linger, just took a few steps down the hallway, opened the first door that presented itself, and went in, closing the door softly behind me."""										
"""I found myself in an office with several desks, all of"" ""them empty but one. “Excuse me,” I said to the young"""										
"""constable who raised his head from his paperwork, “the sergeant wants you at the front desk.”"""										
"""In all likelihood assuming I was recently employed at the Yard as a shorthand transcriber or something of the sort, he nodded, got up, and went out."""										
"""I went out also, by the window. Lifting the sash, I hopped over the sill as if mounting a bicycle, alighting on the pavement as if getting off the other side. There were people passing, of course, but without a glance at any of them, as if it were perfectly normal to exit a public building in this manner, I removed my pince-nez and tossed it into the street, where  a large horse promptly trod upon it. Standing straight, I walked away briskly, as befit a young professional woman. At the corner, an omnibus was just stopping. I got on, paid my fare, took a seat among many other Londoners upon the roof, and did not look back. Likely my brother and Lestrade were still questioning Tewky as the big bus trundled me away."" ""However, I knew it would not take them long to pick up"""										
"""my scent. Tewky would tell them how he and a girl dressed like a widow had escaped Cutter’s boat together. A girl named Holmes. Probably by now Tewky had turned to me, wanting to introduce me, but finding nothing except two sketches—I hoped Lestrade, after talking with Tewky, might realise the significance of the sketches—two caricatures lying on the bench along with a hideous green parasol."""										
"""I rather regretted having to leave Tewky so abruptly, without a farewell."""										
But it could not be helped. I had to find Mum.										
"""I also very much regretted not having been able to spend more time with my brother Sherlock, even if only in disguise, to look at him, listen to him, admire him. I actually missed him, with yearning in my heart as if I were a ladybird, ladybird, and I wanted to fly away home—"""										
But my famous detective brother did not care to find Mum. Confound him. All my fluttering feelings about him folded their wings and settled into heartache.										
Although—perhaps it was just as well. Sherlock and										
"""Mycroft would have wanted Mum back in Ferndell Hall, but obviously she did not wish to be there. When"""										
"""—not if, but when I found her, I would ask of her nothing that might make her unhappy. I was not seeking her in order to take away her freedom."""										
I just wanted to have a mum. That was all.										
To be in communication with her. Maybe meet now and then to chat over a										
cup of tea.										
To know where she was.										
"""Although one could not help fearing, at the back of one’s mind, that she had come to harm—still, I imagined it more likely that Mum had taken herself someplace where there were no corsets, no bustles, and perhaps no hats or boots. Someplace amid flowers and greenery. Ironic, I thought, that I, following her example and making my escape, had gone instead to this cesspool of a city where I had not yet seen a palace, a golden carriage, or a lady in ermine and diamonds. Where I had seen instead an old woman crawling on the pavement, her head infested with ringworm."" Certainly Mum could never fall to such depths. Could she?"										
I must be sure not; and I had only a few hours in which to act before the entire London constabulary would be alerted to look for me.										
"""Alighting from the omnibus at the next stop, I walked a block, then hailed a cab. A four-wheeler this time, for the sake of being closed in, my face unseen. “Fleet Street,” I told the driver."""										
"""As he manoeuvred through the heavy traffic of the city, I once more took paper and pencil in hand, composing a message:"""										
THANK YOU MY CHRYSANTHEMUM ARE YOU BLOOMING? SEND IRIS PLEASE.										
I distinctly remembered from The Meanings of Flowers that the iris indicated “a message.” Irises in a bouquet alerted the receiver to pay attention to the meanings of the other flowers. The Greek goddess    Iris had carried messages between Mount Olympus										
and Earth via the bridge of the rainbow.										
"""Many of the other entries in The Meanings of Flowers, however, I could not recall so clearly. As soon as I had found lodgings, I must be sure to obtain a copy of the book for reference."""										
"""Bitterly I regretted the loss of that other, irreplaceable book my  mother had given me, my most precious memento of her, my book of ciphers. What Cutter had done with it, I would never know."""										
(Or so I thought at the time.)										
"""But, I assured myself, I did not need it for any practical purpose."" ""(Again, so I thought.)"""										
"""Taking the message I had composed, I reversed it:"" ESAELPSIRIDNES? GNIMOOLBUOYERAM UMEHTNASYRHCYMUOYKNAHT"										
"""Then I zigzagged it up and down into two lines, thus:"" EALSRDE?"										
NMOBOEAUETAYHYUYNH SEPIINSGIOLUYRMMHNSRCMOKAT										
"""Then, swaying on my seat as my cab rumbled along, I reversed the order of the lines to compose my message. This I would place in the personal advertisements columns of the Pall Mall Gazette, which my mother seldom missed, plus the Magazine of Modern Womanhood, the Journal of Dress Reform, and other publications she favoured. My cipher ran as follows:"" “Tails   ivy    SEPIINSGIOLUYRMMHNSRCMOKAT tips  ivy EALSRDE?NMOBOEAUE-TAYHYUYNH  your"										
Ivy”										
"""I knew that my mother, who could not resist a cipher, would give this one her fullest attention if and when she saw it."""										
"""I also knew that, unfortunately, my brother Sherlock, who habitually read what he called the “agony columns” of the daily newspapers, would also notice"""										
it.										
"""But, as he knew  nothing of the way ivy runs"" ""backwards on a picket fence, perhaps he would not"" decipher it."										
"""And even if he did solve it, I doubted he would understand it or connect it to me."""										
"""Once upon a time—it seemed long ago, in another world, but it was really only six weeks ago—once, pedalling along a country road and thinking of"										
"my brother, I had made a mental list of my talents, comparing them"										
"unfavorably with his."""										
"""Now, riding in a London cab instead of on a bicycle, I found myself compiling in my mind a different list of my talents and abilities. I knew things Sherlock Holmes failed even to imagine. Whereas he had overlooked the significance of my mother’s bustle (baggage) and her tall hat (in which I suspected she had carried quite a stout roll of bank notes), I,  on the other hand, understood the structures and uses of ladies’ underpinnings and adornments. I had shown myself adept at disguise. I  knew the encoded meanings of flowers. In fact, while Sherlock Holmes dismissed “the fair sex” as irrational and insignificant, I knew of matters his “logical” mind could never grasp. I knew an entire world of communications belonging to women, secret codes of hat brims and rebellion, handkerchiefs and subterfuge, feather fans and covert  defiance, sealing-wax and messages in the positioning of a postage- stamp, calling cards and a cloak of ladylike conspiracy in which I could wrap myself. I expected that without much difficulty I could incorporate weaponry as well as defense and supplies into a corset. I could go places and accomplish things Sherlock Holmes could never understand or imagine, much less do."""										
"And I planned to. ""LONDON, NOVEMBER, 1888"""										
"""ALL DRESSED  IN   BLACK,  THE  NAMELESS"""										
"""stranger emerges from her lodgings late at night to prowl the streets of the East End. From her unfashionably straight waist swings a rosary, its ebony beads clicking as she walks. The veiled habit of a nun covers her tall, thin body from head to toe. In her arms she carries food, blankets, and clothing for the poor old women who huddle on the steps of the workhouse, the crawling women called dosses, and any others whom she may find in need. The street folk accept her kindness and call her Sister. No one knows her by any other name, for she never speaks. Seemingly she has taken a vow of silence and solitude. Or perhaps she wishes not to flaunt cultivated speech, not to be betrayed by an upper- class accent. Silent, she comes, she goes, an object of curiosity at first but after a few days scarcely noticed."""										
"""In  a  much  wealthier   and  somewhat  bohemian section of the city, someone is opening an office in the same Gothic residence where Madame Laelia Sibyl  de Papaver, Astral Perditorian, held séances before  her—or  rather,  his—shocking  arrest,  the scandal of the season. With the previous occupant gone to prison, in the house’s bay window a placard has appeared: Soon to Be Available for Consultation, Dr. Leslie  T.  Ragostin,  Scientific  Perditorian.  A scientist must of course be a man, and an important one,  quite  busy at   the  University or  the   British Museum; undoubtedly this is why no one in the well-to- do neighbourhood has yet seen the great Dr. Leslie T. Ragostin. But every day his secretary comes and goes, putting things to rights in his new office, tending to  his  affairs.  She"										
"is  a  plain  young  woman, unremarkable except for her efficiency, very much like thousands   of  other  young   women  typists   and bookkeepers surviving in London so as to send a little money home to their families. Her name is Ivy Meshle."""										
"""Daily, as befits a virtuous and modest young woman alone in the big city, Ivy Meshle lunches at the Professional Women’s Tea-Room nearest to her place of employment. There, protected from any"""										
"""contact with the predatory male of the species, she"""										
"""sits alone reading the Pall Mall Gazette and various other periodicals. Already she has found in one of these publications a personal advertisement that interests her exceedingly, so much so that she has clipped it out and carries it on her person. It says:"""										
“Iris tipstails to Ivy										
ABOMNITEUNTNYHYATEUASRMLNRSML										
OIGNHSNOOLCRSNHMMLOABIGOE”										
"""Sometimes, alone in her cheap lodgings, Miss Meshle (or perhaps the mute, nameless Sister) draws this slip of paper from a pocket and sits down to look at it, even though she has long since deciphered it:""    ""AM BLOOMING IN THE SUN. NOT ONLY CHRYSANTHEMUM,"""										
ALSO RAMBLING ROSE										
"""This  message  was  sent, she  believes, by a"""										
"""contented woman who is wandering, free, in a place where there are no hairpins, no corsets, no dress improvers: with the Gypsies on the moors."""										
If she had any distance to										
"""travel, why did she not use the bicycle?"" Why did she not leave by the gate?"										
"""If she struck out across country, on foot, where was she going?"""										
One hypothesis answers all three questions: The										
"""runaway woman had no great distance to travel, needing only to walk out upon the countryside until she met, very likely by prearrangement, with a caravan of England’s nomads."""										
"""I n The Meanings of Flowers, the rambling rose refers to “a free, wandering, Gypsy type of life.”"""										
"""And if there is a touch of larceny in the nature of Gypsies, well, so there appeared to  be also in"""										
Eudoria Vernet Holmes. As was demonstrated by her										
dealings with Mycroft Holmes. Very likely she is quite enjoying herself. One question remains unanswered:										
Why did  Mum not  take me with her?										
"""Not as troublesome a thought as it used to be. That freedom-loving lady, growing old, having probably only a brief time to fulfill a dream before she dies, has done the best she can for her late-in-life daughter."										
"Sometime—plans the girl who walks alone—perhaps in the spring, when the weather has warmed enough to permit travel, she will set out to seek for her mother among the Gypsies."""										
"""But meanwhile, as she looks at the newspaper clipping, her rather long and angular face softens, rendered almost beautiful, by a smile: for she knows that in the secret code of flowers, a rose of any sort signifies love."""										
END										
###										
1889										
I KNEW I WAS GOING TO DIE. . . .										
"""Striding on my way, I myself shivered with cold. And"" with fear. Listening."										
"""My attention diverted, too late I sensed a presence behind me."""										
"""Some small sound, perhaps the chuff of shoe leather against the frozen mud and crushed stone of the street, perhaps the hiss of an evil breath – but even as I opened my startled mouth to gasp, even as I leapt to turn, something seized me around the neck."""										
"""Something unseen, behind me. Fearsomely strong."" ""Gripping tight, tighter."""										
"""Not a human grasp. Some – some narrow doom, serpentine, constricting, biting into my throat – I could not think, and never even reached for my dagger; I only reacted, dropping my lantern as both my hands flew up to claw at the – thing, whatever it was, tormenting my neck – but already I felt my breathing cut off, my body thrashing in pain, my mouth stretching in a voiceless scream, my vision dimming to darkness, and I knew I was going to die."""										
"""LONDON,"""										
"""JANUARY, 1889"""										
“WE WOULD NOT BE IN THIS DEPLORABLE										
"""situation,” declares the younger and taller of the two men in the small club-room, “if you had not tried to bully her into boarding school!” Sharp-featured, and thin to the point of gauntness, pacing the floor in his shining black boots, black trousers, and black cutaway evening jacket with tails, he resembles a black egret."""										
"""“My dear brother.” Comfortably seated in a deep armchair upholstered in morocco leather, the older, stouter man raises eyebrows like winter hedgerows. “Such bitterness of spirit is not at all in your usual character.” He speaks placidly, for this is his club, specifically its very secure private chamber for conversation, and he looks forward to an excellent roast beef dinner as he tells his younger sibling in kindly tones, “While it is undeniable that the foolish girl is on her own in  this great cauldron of a city and might already have been robbed and left destitute, or worse, plundered of her virtue – still, you must not allow yourself to become emotionally entangled in the problem.”"""										
“How not?” The stalking man swivels to give him a hawklike glare. “She is our sister!”										
"""“And the other missing female is our mother; what of it? Will fretting like a foxhound in a kennel help to find her? If you must blame someone,” adds the seated man, folding his hands across the pillowy expanse of his silken waistcoat, “Mother is the person at whom you should direct your ire.” Logician that he is, he recites reasons. “It is our mother who let the girl run wild, in knickerbockers, on a bicycle, rather than providing her with instruction in the drawing-room graces. It is our mother who spent her days painting posies while our sister climbed trees, and it is our mother who embezzled the funds that should have gone for governess, dancingmaster, decorous feminine dresses, et cetera for the youngster,  and it is our mother who ultimately abandoned the girl.”"""										
"""“On the child’s fourteenth birthday,” mutters the pacing man.""  ""“Birthday or any other day, what does it matter?” complains the older brother, who is beginning to tire of the subject. “Mother is the one who abdicated her responsibility, finally to the point of desertion, and – ”"" ""“And then you impose your will upon a brokenhearted young girl, ordering her to leave the only world she has ever known, now trembling beneath her feet – ”"""										
“The only rational way to reform her into some										
semblance of decent young womanhood!” interrupts										
"""the older brother with asperity. “You, of all people, should see the logic – ”"""										
“Logic is not everything.”										
"""“Certainly this is the first time I have ever heard you say so!” No longer placid or comfortable, the stout man sits forward in his armchair, his boots (sheathed by impeccable spats) planted on the parquet floor. He demands, “Why are you so – so overridden by emotion, so affected? Why is locating our rebellious runaway sister different than any other little problem – ”"""										
“Because she is our sister!”										
"“So much younger that you have met her exactly twice in your life.” ""The tall, hawk-faced, restless one actually stands still. “Once would have been enough.” His quick,"""										
"""sharp voice has slowed and softened, but he does not look at his brother; rather, he appears to stare through the oak-panelled walls of the club-room to some distant place – or time. He says, “She reminds me of myself when I was that age, all nose and chin, gawky, awkward, simply not fitting in with any – ”"""										
“Nonsense!” At once the older brother puts a stop										
"""to such balderdash. “Preposterous! She is a female . Her intellect is inferior, she requires protection . . . there can be no comparison.” Frowning, nevertheless like a statesman he calms his tone in order to take charge. “Such questioning of past events serves no useful purpose; the only rational query now is, how do you propose to find her?”"""										
"""By an apparent effort of will the tall man reins in his faraway gaze, focusing his keen grey eyes upon his brother. After a pause he says merely, “I have a plan.”"""										
“I expect nothing less. Might you share your plan with me?” Silence.										
"""Settling back into his armchair, the older brother smiles a thin smile."										
"“You needs must have your cloak of mystery, eh, Sherlock?”"""										
"""The younger brother, also known as the great detective, shrugs his shoulders, his manner now as cold as that of the elder. “There is no useful purpose to be served by telling you anything at this time, my dear Mycroft. If I am in need of your assistance, rest assured I shall call upon you.”"""										
"""“For what purpose have you come here tonight, then?”"" ""“For once, to speak my mind.”"""										
"""“Is it indeed your mind speaking, my dear Sherlock"""										
? It seems to me that your mental processes lack discipline. You have allowed your nerves to get the better of you. You seem overwrought.”										
"""“A condition preferable, I think, to being not wrought at all.” With an air of finality, Sherlock Holmes collects his hat, gloves, and walking stick, then turns towards"""										
"""the door. “Good night, Mycroft.”"""										
"""“My best wishes for the success of your scheme, my dear Sherlock. Good night.”"""										
CHAPTER THE FIRST										
WITH A SHOCK OF ASTONISHMENT I READ the										
"""card brought in to me on a silver tray by the page-boy. “Dr. John Watson, M.D.” I spoke the name aloud to"""										
"""assure myself I was seeing it rightly, for I could not believe that this, of all persons, should be the very first client to enter the newly opened – January, 1889 – office of London’s – and, indeed, the world’s – only Scientific Perditorian."""										
"""Dr. John Watson? John was a common enough name, but Watson? And a  medical doctor? It had to be, but still I did not wish to believe it. “Is it who I think it is, Joddy?”"""										
"""“ ’Ow wud I know, m’lady?”"""										
"""“Joddy, I have told you before, you are to address me as Miss Meshle."										
"Miss Meshle.” I rolled my eyes, but what could one expect of a boy whose mother had named him Jodhpur (misspelled Jodper in the parish registry) because riding breeches sounded genteel to her? It was Joddy’s awe of my ruffles and puffed sleeves that made him call me “lady,” but he mustn’t, or people would start asking questions. I wanted the page-boy to retain his awe, which kept him from realising I was actually a mere girl not much older than he, but I wanted him to cease and desist the “m’lady.”"" ""More calmly, remembering to guard against any aristocratic edge upon my accent, I asked him, “You have already told the gentleman that Dr."										
"Ragostin is not in?”"""										
"""“Yes, m’lady. I mean, yes, Miss Meshle.”"""										
"""The Scientific Perditorian’s office bore the name of one Dr. Leslie T. Ragostin, because a scientist must needs be a man. But “Dr. Ragostin” would never be in, because he – the Ph.D. kind of doctor – did not exist except in my mind and upon the placards and business cards I placed in shops, kiosks, fruit stalls, and lecture-halls, wherever I could."""										
"""“If you would invite Dr. Watson into my office, then, I will see whether I can be of any help.”"""										
"""Joddy ran out, his appearance if not his intellect smart: all “boy-in- buttons” with braid on his cuffs and down the sides of his trousers,  white gloves, striped hat looking rather like a miniature layer cake atop his head – but why not? Most uniforms are absurd."""										
"""The moment his back disappeared, I sank into the wooden chair behind my desk, my knees trembling so badly that my silk petticoats rustled. This wouldn’t do. Taking a deep breath, I shut my eyes a moment and called to mind my mother’s face. Along with that image I could almost hear her voice: “Enola, you will manage very well on your own.”"""										
"""This mental exercise had the desired effect. Calmed, I opened my eyes in time to see Joddy showing Dr. Watson in from the parlour that served as"" waiting-room."										
"""“Dr. Watson. I am Dr. Ragostin’s secretary, Miss Ivy Meshle.” Rising and extending my hand to the visitor, I saw exactly what I would expect to  see from his writings: a sturdy English gentleman, not well-to-do"""										
"""but definitely of the educated class, with a ruddy face, kind eyes, and a slight inclination towards stoutness. And I hoped he saw me as I was pretending to be:"""										
"""an utterly conventional young working woman with a bulbous brooch centered upon her dress-front, wearing equally hideous earrings, in general much bedecked in finery of inexpensive materials mimicking the very latest (just as absurd as a uniform) fashion. A girl some of whose fair curls were not her own but had formerly belonged, most likely, to a Bavarian peasant. While respectable, a young female who was not well- bred. One whose father might have been a saddle-maker or a tavern-keeper. A girl most likely preoccupied with pursuit of a husband. If, by means of the aforementioned “brooch” plus a dog- collar necklace, too many  ribbons, and the too- obvious hair additions, I had created this impression, then my disguise was successful."""										
"""“Pleased to make your acquaintance, Miss Meshle.” Dr. Watson had already removed his hat, of course, but quite properly had waited to shake my hand before removing his gloves and entrusting them, along with his walking stick, to the boy."""										
"""“Please, sit down.” I indicated an armchair. “Do draw close to the hearth. Dreadfully cold out, is it not?”"""										
"""“Appalling. Never before have I seen the Thames frozen thick enough to skate across.” As he spoke, he rubbed his hands together and extended them to the fire. Despite its best efforts, the room was none too warm, and I envied the visitor his cozy upholstered chair. Somehow cold and damp had not troubled me so much before I had come to London, where"										
already I had seen a beggar – or the bodily remains of that person –										
"frozen to the pavement."""										
"""Reseating myself on the comfortless wooden chair behind my desk, I hunched my shawl closer around my shoulders, rubbed my own hands (stiff despite the knitted mittens out of which my fingers poked), then picked up my pencil and notepad. “I am so sorry, Dr."""										
"""Watson, that Dr. Ragostin has gone out. I am sure he"""										
"""would be delighted to meet you. You are the same Dr. Watson who is an associate of Mr. Sherlock Holmes, are you not?”"""										
"""“I am.” Polite, indeed humble, he turned to face me as he spoke. “And it is on Mr. Holmes’s behalf that I am here.”"""										
"""My heart began pounding so hard, I almost feared my visitor would hear it. No longer could I tell myself some lucky – or unlucky – accident had brought this particular man here."""										
"""Here, to consult the world’s only professional finder"" ""of things, and persons, lost."""										
"""But I tried to sound merely polite, with the right middle-class accent, the right clerical blend of efficiency and servility. “Indeed?” Poised as if to take notes, I asked, “What is the nature of Mr. Holmes’s difficulty?”"""										
"""“I’m sure you will understand, Miss Meshle, that I would prefer to wait and speak privately to Dr."""										
Ragostin.”										
"""I smiled. “And I am sure you will understand, Dr. Watson, that I am entrusted to take down the preliminaries, so as to conserve Dr."										
"Ragostin’s valuable time. I am Dr. Leslie Ragostin’s authorised agent – not to take action, of course,” I amended in order to soothe his natural distrust of any female, “but I often serve as his eyes and ears. Just as you do for Mr. Sherlock Holmes,” I added, coaxing but trying not to sound as if I were."""										
"""Trying not to show how inwardly I begged, Please. Please, I must knowwhether I have guessed rightly what brings you here."""										
"""“Um, yes,” said Dr. Watson uncertainly. “Quite.” He really did have gentle eyes, all the more so when he was worried. “But I am not sure – the matter is delicate – you see, Holmes does not know about this visit.”"""										
But – my brother has not sent him?										
"""My heart settled down somewhat, yet began to ache."""										
"""Rather dully I told Dr. Watson, “You can rely on my complete discretion.”"""										
"""“Quite. Of course.” And as if somehow my diminishing interest had cajoled him, a troubled soul, into unburdening himself to me, he grasped the arms of his chair and began his narration."""										
“Doubtless you know that I boarded for several years with Mr. Sherlock Holmes at the beginning of										
"""his astounding career, but as I am now married and in general practice  as a medical doctor, I see far less of him than I did formerly. It has  not escaped my notice, however, that since this past summer he has seemed uneasy in his mind, and over the past few months positively distraught,  to the extent that he is not eating properly, nor sleeping, and I have become concerned for him not only as a friend but as a physician. He has lost weight, his colour is unhealthy, and he has grown quite melancholy and irritable.”"""										
"""Busily noting down all this for “Dr. Ragostin,” I was able to keep my head lowered over my desk so that Dr. Watson would not see my face. A good thing, for I am sure dismay showed; tears formed in my eyes. My brother, paragon of the coldly logical mind,"""										
distraught? Unable to eat or sleep? I had no idea that he was capable of such depth of feeling. Least of all about me.										
Dr. Watson went on. “Although I have asked him										
"""repeatedly what is troubling him so, he denies being"""										
"""in any difficulty, and when yesterday I persisted in questioning him, he flew into such a temper, so out of keeping with his usual steely self- control, indeed so irrational, that I felt I must act upon my concerns whether he liked it or not, for his own sake. Therefore, I sought out his brother, Mr. Mycroft Holmes – ”"""										
"""Ivy Meshle, I realised, should know nothing of Sherlock Holmes’s  brother. Therefore I interrupted, “How does one spell his name, please?”"" ""“It is an odd name, is it not.” Watson spelled it for me, gave me Mycroft’s address in London, then continued. “After some hesitation, Mycroft Holmes explained to me that he and Sherlock Holmes have the singular misfortune of being unable to locate their mother. And not only their mother, gone without a trace, but also their younger sister. Two family"""										
"""members – their only remaining family, actually – have vanished.”""  ""“How dreadful,” I murmured, keeping my eyes down. I no longer felt inclined to weep; instead, I wanted to smile – indeed, I wanted to thumb my nose at my ever-so-eldest brother Mycroft, who had wanted to make a mincing young lady of me – and I found it difficult to maintain a suitably concerned expression as I played the part of one who knew nothing of the matter. “Kidnapped?”"""										
"""Dr. Watson shook his head. “There have been no ransom demands. No, they are runaways.”"""										
“How shocking.” I remembered to remain ignorant. “They have gone off together?”										
"""“No! Separately. The mother went missing last summer, and the girl ran away six weeks later, as she was being sent to boarding school. She went alone. I believe that is why Holmes has taken the matter so much to heart. If the girl were with her mother, you see, he might not approve, but he would know his sister was safe. However, it seems that the girl – who is still quite a child – has travelled all by herself to London!”"" ""“A child, you say?”"""										
“A mere fourteen years of age. Mycroft Holmes told me that he and his brother have reason to believe the girl has access to considerable funds										
– ”										
"""I stiffened, feeling a stab of anxiety, for how on earth could they guess that?"""										
“ – and they fear she is disguising herself as a young gentleman of leisure – ”										
"""I relaxed, for nothing could be less true. I hoped never to descend to the theatrical cliché of disguising myself as male. Although certainly I did not limit myself to being Ivy Meshle."""										
"""“ – and as such she might be exposed to decadent influences,” Dr. Watson was saying, “and may be trapped into a life of ill repute.”"""										
"Ill repute? I hadn’t the vaguest notion what he was ""talking about, but dutifully noted it down. “Mr. Mycroft"""										
Holmes and Mr. Sherlock Holmes have some reason for thinking this?” I inquired.										
"""“Yes. The mother was, or is, a most determined Suffragist, and the girl herself is of a regrettably unfeminine mould, it would seem.”""    ""“Indeed. How sad.” Glancing up at him from under a pouf of false bangs, I fluttered my false eyelashes and smiled with subtly tinted lips; indeed, I used a hint of a disreputable substance called “rouge”lay all over my face to change the sallow, aristocratic tone of my skin to a heartier, more ordinary pink. “Could you provide Dr. Ragostin with a photograph of the girl?”"""										
"""“No. Nor of the woman, either. It would seem that both avoided photographers.”"""										
“What ever for?”										
"""He sighed, his facial expression becoming for the first time somewhat"										
"less than kind. “Part of their determination to act contrary to the laws of feminine nature, I suppose.”"""										
"""“Could you give me their names, please, and describe them?”"""										
"""He spelt the names for me: Lady Eudoria Vernet Holmes, Miss Enola Holmes. (Mum had showed prescience when she named me Enola, which, backwards, spells “alone.”)"""										
"""Dr. Watson said, “From what I have been told, the girl is the more remarkable of the two. Quite tall and thin – ”"""										
"""I had been trying to gain weight, but so far unsuccessfully, due to the fish-head soups and sheep’s-head stews served by my thrifty landlady.""  ""“ – with a long face, a pronounced, ah, that is to say, rather Ciceronian nose and chin – ”"""										
"""What a very tactful way to say that I looked entirely too much like my brother Sherlock. Having failed yet to make myself plump, I kept inside my mouth, one in each cheek, a pair of rubber devices that were actually intended for filling out another, unmentionable part of the personage."										
"They, along with nostril inserts, quite altered the shape of my face.""  ""“ – and an angular personage rather lacking in feminine charm,” continued Dr. Watson. “She has shown a preference for masculine clothing and tomboyish activities, walks with a long, masculine stride, and altogether may be entirely lost to decent society if she is not soon found.”"""										
"""“And the mother?” I asked, in order to change the subject before I burst out laughing."""										
"""“Sixty-four years of age, but appears considerably younger. Physically unremarkable, but in temperament strong-minded and willful. A talented artist who has unfortunately turned her energies to the cause of women’s so-called rights.”"""										
“Oh. She wishes to wear trousers?”										
He smiled at my apparent scorn for such reformers.										
“Quite likely. She favors so-called ‘rational dress.’ ”										
"“And are there any indications at all as to where she might be found?” ""“None. But the girl, as I have said, is thought to be in London.”"""										
"""I put down my pencil to face him. “Very well, Dr. Watson, I will inform Dr. Ragostin of the particulars. But I must warn you that he is unlikely to take the case.” My very first case, an impossible predicament: to find myself? I could not possibly touch it."""										
“Why ever not?”										
I had already worked out the answer. “Because he does not care to deal with intermediaries. He will ask why Mr. Sherlock Holmes has not come here himself										
– ”										
"""Dr. Watson interrupted with some heat, although his strong feeling was not directed at me. “Because Holmes is too reserved, too proud. If he would not even tell me the reason for his distress, do you think he would divulge it to a stranger?”"""										
"""“But a fellow investigator,” I remarked mildly."""										
"""“Even worse. He would consider himself humiliated in the presence of – ” Rather abruptly Dr. Watson broke off, then asked, “For the matter of  that, one must wonder, who is this Dr. Ragostin? Begging your pardon, Miss, um . . .”lay"""										
"""“Meshle.” Take the name Holmes, reverse its syllables – Mes hol – then spell it the way it is pronounced, Meshle; absurdly simple. Yet he would never guess. No one would."""										
"""“Miss Meshle. I mean no offense, but I have made inquiries, and nobody has heard of Dr. Ragostin. I came here only because he claims to specialise in finding persons who are lost – ”"""										
"""“Anything that is lost,” I interjected."""										
"""“But I have found no one who can vouch for him.” “Because he is making"										
"his start, just as your friend"""										
once had to do. Dr. Ragostin has yet to earn a name for himself. But you will be interested to know that he is a keen student of the methods of Mr. Sherlock Holmes.”										
"""“Indeed?” Dr. Watson appeared mollified. “Yes. He idolises Mr. Holmes, and will be most"""										
surprised to hear that his hero has been unable himself to locate his missing mother and sister.”										
"""Sitting forward as if his armchair had suddenly become uncomfortable,  Dr. Watson cleared his throat. “I suppose,” he said slowly, “it might be because Holmes lacks interest in such cases normally. He finds them commonplace and featureless, and generally will not look into them. Why, just yesterday,” Watson added, “as I was going in to see Holmes, out came Sir Eustace Alistair and Lady Alistair, who had been there to beg him to inquire into the whereabouts of their daughter, and he had sent them away with a flea in their ear.”"""										
I ignored the logical impossibility of one flea in one										
"""ear for two people, because my attention was all taken up by the substance. “Sir Eustace Alistair? His daughter is missing? But I have seen nothing in the newspapers – ”"""										
Watson put his fist to his mouth and coughed. “It has been hushed up to prevent scandal.”										
"""They feared the girl had gone off with a seducer, then."""										
I must investigate this matter. I knew that Dr. Watson would tell me no more – already he considered that he had said too much – but he had brought me my first case after all. I would find the missing daughter of the baronet.										
"""Looking none too happy, Watson stood up; the interview was at an end. Reaching for the bell-pull, I rang for Joddy to come see him out.""    ""“I wish to meet Dr. Ragostin personally,” Watson told me, “before he takes any action.”"""										
"""“Of course. Your street address? Dr. Ragostin will be in touch as soon as he has reviewed my notes,” I lied."""										
"""After I copied the address, I stood to see my visitor out the door."" ""And after he had left, I seated myself in the armchair he had vacated, by the fire, and rather paradoxically began shivering."""										
CHAPTER THE SECOND										
I SHIVERED WITH FEAR.										
"""Of my brother Sherlock, whom I adored."""										
"""He was my hero. He was my nemesis. I very nearly worshipped him. But if he tracked me down, I would lose my freedom forever."""										
Yet – he was distraught on my account?										
"I could no longer tell myself that I had hurt nothing except his pride. ""But what to do? If I gave Sherlock Holmes the slightest hint of my well- being, he would somehow use it to entrap me."""										
"""There was Mum to consider, too. How much time did she have left to enjoy freedom and happiness, away from the constraints of propriety and “a woman’s place,” before she departed this life? Were men the only ones allowed to have any pride?"""										
"""My other brother, Mycroft, entered my thoughts only briefly; I did not care whether his pride were hurt."""										
"""Although quite as intelligent as Sherlock, otherwise he rather resembled last night’s left-over cooked potato, cold and inert. He did not care for me enough to try to find me."""										
But there was another consideration: Why should Mycroft have troubled himself to tell Watson about me?										
"""What if it were all a lie? What if Dr. Watson’s visit were a ruse, and Sherlock had himself sent his friend to spy upon me?"""										
Nonsense. My brother couldn’t know –										
"""But he somehow did know what he should not remotely know, that I had"										
"money. And he had perhaps noticed that Dr. Ragostin had taken the offices of the so-called “Astral Perditorian” whom I, Enola Holmes, had helped to send to prison. What if Sherlock Holmes sensed a connection?"""										
"""Unlikely, I decided after weighing this thought in my mind. More likely, if Sherlock Holmes himself had sent Dr. Watson to spy, it was out of curiosity, to assess whether the “Scientific Perditorian” might afford  him competition as a detective."""										
"""In which case, might it be untrue that my brother was suffering?"""										
But I could have sworn it was genuine concern I had seen in Dr. Watson’s eyes.										
"""Confound it, how was I supposed to know what to"""										
"do about family? Spiritualist levitation seemed less mysterious to me.     ""I wished I could consult with Mum. However, I had not seen her since the fateful day last July when she had taken her unexpected departure."										
"Indeed, I did not know exactly where she was. I had been in touch with her only through the personal advertising columns of the Pall Mall Gazette (her favourite newspaper,"""										
"""cultured yet more progressive than the Times),"""										
"""Modern Womanhood,  the Journal of Personal Rights, and a few other publications, using either ciphers or codes. For instance, when I had hypothesised that she was wandering with the Gypsies, I had placed the following:"""										
"""My Chrysanthemum: The fourth letter of true love, the fourth letter of purity, the first letter of thoughts, the fourth letter of innocence, the first letter of fidelity, the third or fourth letter of departure, and  the first letter of the same. Correct? Ivy The chrysanthemum had become our code word for “Mum,” and the message itself referred simply to  certain other blossoms as put forth in The Meanings of Flowers, a reference book Mum had given me – such symbolism was common knowledge amongst people who exchanged floral greetings. In my personal advertisement, then – a reverse bouquet, so to speak"""										
"""– true love stood for the forget-me-not, purity stood for the lily, and so on to include pansy, daisy, ivy, sweet pea, and sweet pea again. The fourth letter of forget-me-not was G, the fourth letter of lily was Y, et cetera, to spell out Gypsies."""										
"""Within a week Mum had replied, by a similar code of flowers, “Yes. Where are you?”"""										
"""And I had answered in like wise, “London.”"""										
"""Such had been the extent of our communication. I very much wanted to see my mum, yet hesitated due to the strength of my feelings towards her, not all of them kind."""										
"""Not all of them sure, either. Therefore, I would rather have located her in my own good time and on my own terms."""										
"""But now, such upsetting news of Sherlock . . . it was necessary, I decided, to put my own reservations aside."""										
I wanted to consult with Mum. I needed to consult with Mum. But I must contact her most cautiously.										
"""I waited until I got home, away from Joddy and the"" other servants."										
"""While I could have lodged in the comfortable upper floors of the Gothic edifice that housed Dr. Ragostin’s offices, for caution’s sake I did not. Instead, “Dr."""										
"""Ragostin” rented those rooms to a variety of rather Bohemian lodgers (thus stabilising my finances), while I had found a quite humble room in the East End, where my brother was not likely to look for me – he would not think his sister would ever venture into such slums. In my run-down place of residence, a decrepit house cramped between smut-coloured tenements, I was the only lodger. The landlady, a sweet, elderly widow"										
"named Mrs. Tupper, was blessedly deaf, requiring one to shout into a"										
"speaking"""										
"""trumpet she held to her ear. Therefore, she could ask"""										
"me few questions. The only servant was a daily girl-of- all-work whom I never saw. In every regard the situation was ideal for concealment. ""Therefore I waited until evening when, safe in my modest bedchamber, comfortably divested of corset, bust enhancer, and the frills, false hair, and facial inserts of Ivy Meshle, I relaxed near the fire in a dressing-gown, with my feet up on a hassock to escape the cold draughts along the floor."""										
"""Pulling a candle closer to my side, I began to compose a cipher to Mum."" DOGWOOD FOUR IRIS TWICE THREE VIOLET AND APPLE BLOSSOM HOW MANY?"										
"""This message must be, I had decided, different"""										
"""than previous ones and more difficult. How did brother Sherlock know I had money? This worried me greatly. As he knew that much, had he somehow deciphered, and attributed to Mum and me, earlier communications in the “agony columns” of the Pall Mall  Gazette?"""										
I took what I had written so far and broke it into groups of three letters:										
DOG WOO DFO URI RIS TWI CET HRE EVI OLE TAN DAP PLE BLO SSO MHO WMA NY?										
"""I hadn’t mentioned Ivy, for caution’s sake, but hoped"""										
that Mum would nevertheless recognise the cipher as being from me by its code of flowers. Iris symbolised a message.										
"""But also – fervidly I hoped Mum would grasp how the code had changed this time – an iris was unique for having three large petals on top and three on the bottom, a dogwood bloom just as unique for having four petals, and a violet and an apple blossom both had five. I had mentioned the violet because it stood for faithfulness. And the apple blossom because sometimes when I was a little girl Mum would cut an apple crosswise to show me the five-pointed star inside, and explain how the apple and its seeds grew from the five-petalled flower."""										
"""Having broken up the message, I reversed it:"""										
NY? WMA MHO SSO BLO PLE DAP TAN OLE EVI HRE CET TWI RIS URI DFO WOO DOG										
"""Scowling, I eyed the question mark. It would make"""										
the cipher too easy to solve. I replaced it with what Mum would call a										
“null”:										
NYX WMA MHO SSO BLO PLE DAP TAN										
OLE EVI HRE CET TWI RIS URI DFO WOO DOG										
"""There. I imagined Mum would solve this easily, as it"""										
was not unlike the first cipher with which she had perplexed me. But this was a mere preliminary to make Mum think about the number five.										
I hoped she would then understand that one can take the alphabet and divide it into five parts:										
ABCDE FGHIJ KLMNO PQRST UVWXYZ										
"""And each part has five letters, except the last; but Z"" is used so seldom that it can be lumped together with Y. ""I then wrote my real message to Mum, LONDON"""										
"""BRIDGE FALLING DOWN URGENT MUST TALK,"""										
and enciphered it thus:										
"""L is in the third group or line of letters, and it is the second letter there: 32. O is in the third line, fifth letter: 35."""										
And so on.										
323534143534 124324142215 2444										
21113232243432 14355334										
514322153445 33514445 45113231										
I considered running all the numbers together and										
"""letting Mum separate the words afterward, but decided against it. She would have enough difficulty with the cipher (third letter second line, or third line second letter?) and decoding the London Bridge reference,"										
meant to tell her where the trouble was and where I wanted to talk with										
"her."""										
My final draft read: NYX WMA MHO SSO BLO PLE DAP TAN OLE EVI HRE CET TWI RIS URI DFO WOO DOG 323534143534 124324142215 2444										
21113232243432 14355334 514322153445										
33514445 45113231										
"""This I copied several times for several different periodicals, triple- checking each copy for accuracy before folding both ends towards the centre and affixing the overlapping edge with wax – ordinary white candle-wax, as I had no colourful sealing-wax. After addressing the blank sides of the papers, I set them aside."""										
"""Tomorrow I would take them to Fleet Street. Then, until Mum answered, there would be nothing to do but wait."""										
I detested waiting.										
"""In regard to the daughter of Sir Eustace Alistair,"""										
again I must wait. I could not pursue that matter until tomorrow. But I had to do something before I would be able to sleep.										
"""So, getting up from my cosy seat by the fire, I began to dress. Again. But differently this time. Instead of ladylike underpinnings, I put on flannel unmentionables that warmed me from wrists to ankles. Then an old corset that had once kept a knife thrust from penetrating my person; I laced it only just tightly enough to keep it on, as I wore it not for vanity, but for defense. And also for armament. Where a steel “busk” had once made the corset’s front as rigid as a poker, I had substituted a slender fiveinch dagger sheathed in the garment’s heavily starched linen. This weapon – double-edged, razor-sharp – I could reach through a placket in the bosom of the garment I now put on: a very simple black dress I had sewed for myself in hopes that it would pass as the habit of a nun. I fastened my high collar, ribbed with whalebone to foil cutthroats. Over thick socks I put on my old black boots. Finally, I arranged a black cowl and veil to cover my head and face."""										
Such was the apparel of my nighttime life. CHAPTER THE THIRD										
SOFTLY I SLIPPED OUT OF MY ROOM. AS was her										
"""custom, Mrs. Tupper had retired early to her bedchamber, where, even if she were still awake, the dear deaf old soul could not possibly hear my careful tread as I exited. Since I kept my habit hidden in the bedstead, I felt quite certain Mrs. Tupper had no idea that a second person, so to speak, a rather gaunt, nocturnal Sister of Charity, was lodging in her spare room along with that nice young secretary girl Miss Meshle."""										
"""I had to feel my way down the dark stairs, for of course in this sorry house, nearly a hovel, there was no gas laid on. Fumbling for the keyhole in the dark, I unlocked the front door with my latch-key, stepped  outside, relocked the door behind me, then walked quickly away to lessen the likelihood that any chance midnight watcher should discover where I lived."""										
"""At random, taking a different route than last night or the night before, I strode down shadowy, narrow “courts” ill-lit by gas street-lamps. Not for the East End were the carriage lamps and flambeaux of the well-to-  do, nor the brand-new electric fixtures of the very rich. Here, the  feeble and wavering lights floated, or rather drowned, in a sea of brown smut; London crouched frigid in its own peculiar, choking way. Here, midnight’s chill was made of chimney soot, coal fumes, wood smoke, and dank disease wafting up from the Thames; it was as if one swam in a fog colder than ice yet never frozen, forever soaking through one’s clothing and into one’s bones. Such thick and freezing weather had driven indoors all folk who had anywhere to take refuge. Even on the stairways of the lodging-houses one would find vagabonds sleeping. Poor folk who had no other fuel tonight were burning straw stolen from dung-heaps behind stables, and might not live to see morning."""										
"""When I judged I had left my own lodgings far enough behind, I stepped"										
"into a dark gap between houses and lit an oil lantern I had brought with me. Already stiffening with cold, my fingers could barely manipulate the match."""										
"""One might well wonder why a young lady of gentle breeding would go out under such circumstances. I myself did not fully understand why I felt compelled to wander the night. I am perhaps a bit of a monomaniac, driven always to quest, venture, search, seek, find. Find out, find things, find people – tonight, anyone who might need help to survive."""										
"""Into my habit, as well as the heavy wool mantle I wore over it, I had sewed many deep pockets, stocked with items I might need: candle stubs and wooden matches, shillings and pence, warm knitted socks and caps and mittens, apples, biscuits, a flask"""										
of brandy. I carried a homemade blanket over one arm. In the other hand I lifted the lantern.										
"""Wearing black fur-lined gloves, I held my light high and began to search the back ways and byways, alert for any hint of danger, any sounds of angry altercation, or screaming, or footsteps behind me."""										
I listened also for the sound of anyone crying. And before very long I heard it.										
"""A low, dull sort of sobbing. Reflexive, as if the person had given up, weeping only to breathe. Guided by that lament – for my lantern showed me only a few paces of street-stone underfoot before all vanished into sooty fog – I found an old woman crouched in a doorway, trying to warm herself in a shawl that covered only her head and shoulders."""										
"""As I approached, as she heard my footsteps, she tried to muffle her weeping with her hands, afraid – but then she sobbed aloud again, this time in relief, recognising me. Many such folk knew me by now. “Sister,” she whispered, “Sister of the Streets.” One thin arm faltered towards me."""										
"""Mutely, for the Sister never spoke or made a sound, I swept down on her like – like a big skinny black hen on a chick, I suppose, wrapping her in the blanket I had brought along. A crude thing: I made my blankets out of hunks of old cloth sewn together, because any coverings of better quality would have been stolen from those who needed them most."""										
"""This woman’s face, lifted to the lantern light, was perhaps not elderly after all, only harrowed by hardship, her scrawny body stunted by rickets and hunger. Was she a widow or a spinster, turned away from a common lodging-house for lack of eightpence, or had she been driven into the night by a husband’s drunken blows? Knowing that I would never know, I slipped thick, knitted stockings over her bare feet, then brought out of one of my pockets an item I had, I believe, invented: a sizable tin tightly stuffed to the brim with wadded paper into which I had poured paraffin. Lighting a wooden match, I laid it atop this odd sort of portable fire and set it in the doorway beside her, where it started to burn, flaring, like an overlarge candle, putting off a good deal of heat. It would last only an hour or so, but long enough for her to warm herself."""										
"""And hidden enough, I hoped, so that it would not attract any unwelcome company to her."""										
"""I gave her an apple, some biscuits, and a meat pie that had come from a baker, not a street vendor, and therefore might be made of good wholesome meat not intermixed with dog or cat."""										
"""“Thank you so much, Sister.” The woman could not seem to stop weeping, but she would, I thought, after I went away. Quickly I slipped her a few shillings, money enough to buy her food and lodging for several days, but not so much that she was likely to be killed"""										
"""for it. Then, standing back, I turned away, hoping she"" understood that there was nothing more I could do for her. ""“Sister of the Streets, God bless you!” she called after me."""										
"""Her gratitude made me feel like a fraud, a farce, unworthy, for there"										
"were many, too many like her, and I could never possibly find them all."" ""Striding on my way, I myself shivered with cold. And with fear."										
"Listening."""										
"""Tipsy singing and drunken yells floated faintly to my ears from the next street. A public house, still open? I wondered how this was allowed."										
"Surely the authorities"""										
"""– 7 My attention diverted, too late I sensed a presence behind me.""  ""Some small sound, perhaps the chuff of shoe leather against the frozen mud and crushed stone of the street, perhaps the hiss of an evil breath – but even as I opened my startled mouth to gasp, even as I leapt to turn, something seized me around the neck."""										
"""Something unseen, behind me. Fearsomely strong."" ""Gripping tight, tighter."""										
"""Not a human grasp. Some – some narrow doom, serpentine, constricting, biting into my throat – I could not think, and never even reached for my dagger; I only reacted, dropping my lantern as both my hands flew up to claw at the – thing, whatever it was, tormenting my neck – but already I felt my breathing cut off, my body thrashing in pain, my mouth stretching in a voiceless scream, my vision dimming to darkness, and I knew I was going to die."""										
It seems to me that I next grew aware of a light in the										
"""darkness – but not a kindly light; this was orange, dancing, diabolical. Blinking my way out of blackness, I felt the cold harsh street beneath  me, and saw that I lay nearly in a fire. A pool of oil, leaking from my broken lantern, burned merrily. In that gleeful glow, three or four men peered down at me – very blurred, that memory. Blurred by night and fog, by my confusion and pain, by my veil. As blurred as their drunken  voices."""										
“Is she dead?”										
“What sort o’ cad wud garrote the Sister?” “Mebbe one o’ them foreign Anarchists ’oo don’t										
like religion.”										
"“Did any of yer see ’im?” “Is she breathin’?” ""Bending over me, one of them lifted my veil."""										
"""I think he looked at my face for a moment before I struck his hands away. Before my shock at such impropriety roused me from my – swoon? No, one"""										
"""can hardly say I had tumbled down in a faint, not in any delicate-lady sense of the word. Surely if one is strangled half dead, one cannot be accused of"""										
fainting.										
"""In any event, blinking my way out of unconsciousness took a moment or two, which I remember imperfectly. I believe I struck out at the man who was lifting my veil, yanking it back down over my face again as I rolled away from the fire and wavered to my feet."""										
"""“ ’Ere, missus, wot’s yer ’urry?” “Steady on, old ’orse.” “Watchit, Sister, ye’ll fall.”"""										
"""Hands reached towards me. But rejecting their offers of help – for they were staggering drunk, whereas I was merely staggering – I fled."""										
"""I retreated, as the military would say, in bad order. Without ever having drawn a weapon. In a panic of dry sobbing. Indeed I hardly know how I blundered my way back to my lodging. But somehow, eventually, I reached my room, where, trembling, I lit every oil"""										
"""lamp, every candle, and stirred up the hearth fire, wastefully throwing on wood and coal until I’d roused a blaze of warmth and light in the night."""										
"""I threw myself into my armchair and sat trying to stop panting, for each breath hurt my throat. Closing my mouth, I swallowed again and again, trying to swallow my humiliation as well as my pain."""										
"""Despite the fire, I still felt cold with more than just night’s frost,"										
"chilled to the marrow of my soul. I needed to get into bed. Staggering up, I began to unbutton my high collar –"""										
My trembling fingers felt something hanging around my neck.										
"""Some alien presence, long and smooth, supple – it was as if a snake clung there. Despite the pain to my injured throat, I cried out as I snatched and clawed at the thing, fumbling it off of me and flinging it to the floor."""										
There on my hearth-rug it lay. The garrote.										
"""I had heard that they were made of wire, but this one was fashioned instead of some sort of smooth, white cord knotted to a stick of wood."" Caught in that knot I saw a cluster of brown hair – my own. Wrenched from my head as the garroter had twisted the device tighter and tighter around my neck."										
"""Swaying where I stood, I had to close my eyes for a moment, realising that only my high collar, stiffened with whalebone, had kept me alive. London’s constables wore high-collared tunics for the same reason. How astonishing, and fearsome, to think that such a simple device could terrorise an entire metropolis, even the police."""										
"""Fearsome also, and shameful, to realise that not any courage or wit of my own had saved me."""										
"""Forgetting my weapon, like a bumbling fool I had kicked and clawed, no better than any other preyedupon female. Collar or no collar, I might be"" ""dead had those drunkards not happened along. Yes, I"""										
"""decided, indeed, they must have interrupted the garroter. Why else would he have left his lovingly fashioned apparatus around my neck?""     ""Trembling badly, I forced myself to open my eyes again, studying that loathsome device."""										
"""Lovingly fashioned, indeed. The stick, of polished malacca wood, might have been taken from a gentleman’s cane. Hardly the sort of implement one would expect of a street thug. And the cord –"""										
A stay-lacing.										
"""That is to say, the lacing from a lady’s corset."""										
"""Sudden sickness lurched through me, and with it, a blaze of anger. Snatching up the foul-minded, insolent thing, I flung it into the fire."" CHAPTER THE FOURTH"										
"""FOR TWO DAYS I STAYED IN BED, CONVEYING to"""										
"""Mrs. Tupper by signs, as I could barely speak, that I had a sore throat"										
"– a common enough ailment at the time of year; I am sure she thought nothing more of it. The high ruffled collar of my nightgown hid my bruised neck."""										
"""It could not, however, comfort my bruised and ruffled feelings. While accustomed to physical pain – often enough as a child I had fallen from a bicycle, a horse, a tree – I found myself not at all accustomed to being hurt by another human being in such an offhanded way. It was not only my sore throat that prevented me from eating the soups and jellies Mrs."										
"Tupper offered me. It was the malice of what had happened that made me sick."""										
"""Malice, and impropriety – no, far more than"""										
impropriety. Some – some evil I could not yet name. Something about the stay-lacing.										
"""What sort of man would attack a woman with a weapon derived from a cane"										
"– the sort of stick used to thrash schoolchildren – and a corset?  Intimate feminine apparel by which upper-class females were compressed to fit into their ridiculous dresses, making them ornamental to society, prone to fainting spells, and susceptible to internal injuries and  death?"""										
"""It was largely in order to escape strait-lacing that I had given brothers Mycroft and Sherlock the slip. I had fled so that no so-called"										
"boarding school could thrash me or try to cut me in half at the waist,"										
"and now someone had put that – that thing – around my neck?"" For what purpose? To rob me of what?"										
And why with such a strangely disturbing weapon?										
"""Was it indeed a man who had attacked me, or some madwoman?"""										
"""These were questions for which I lacked answers. By the third day I could talk a little, and I returned to"""										
"""Dr. Ragostin’s office, where I made myself comfortable – in body, if not in mind – reading the stack of newspapers that had accumulated during my absence."""										
"""I found my message to Mum in the newspapers, for I had sent copies to Fleet Street by post, but I found no message from Mum to me."""										
"""Of course it was too early to expect a reply. Still, I could not help looking. I wanted –"""										
"""This would not do. Feeling sorry for myself like a child, wanting Mummy. What would Mother have told me if she were here? Utterly predictable:  “You will do very well on your own, Enola.”"""										
A statement I had always accepted as rather a compliment.										
"""But on this particular day, with the pain in my throat exacerbated by a lump that had arisen therein, I"""										
"""suddenly, achingly realised that I wanted – I wanted"" something. Or someone."										
I wanted no longer to be alone.										
"""Enola, alone, with no one to walk by my side. With no one to confide in."""										
With no one to comfort me.										
"""Yet I knew quite well that any companionship simply could not be, not  for another seven years – for until I became legally adult, every person who knew me posed a threat to me, of discovery. Joddy, a danger if he learned too much. Mrs. Tupper, likewise. The grocers and bakers who supplied the food I gave to the poor, the washerwoman who did my oddly assorted laundry, the whitesmith who had made my daggers for me, each a risk. I had thought of keeping a pet, but even a dog could ruin me just  by recognising me at the wrong time. Old Reginald, the collie from Ferndell, if he were somehow transported to London and encountered me, would hurl himself at me with ecstatic canine cries, no matter how I  might be disguised. And if Lane the butler were with him, and Mrs. Lane, if they found me, she would burst into happy tears, for she had been like a mother to me, more so than –"""										
"""Stop. Enola Holmes, you stop snivelling this instant."" ""I needed to get up, get moving, accomplish something."""										
"""Very well. There was nothing I could do concerning Mum, or concerning Sherlock’s distress until I had heard from Mum. And – although I fervidly wished for justice, or, indeed, revenge! – at this point there was  nothing I could do about the unknown garroter who had distressed me.""  ""But there was, surely, something I could do concerning my life’s  calling: being a perditorian. Something I could do about Sir Eustace Alistair’s missing daughter. I had promised myself that, for “his” first case, “Dr. Ragostin” would find her."""										
I needed to know the particulars.										
"""After some thought, I rose and made my way back"""										
"""through various passageways to the kitchen, where the cook and the housekeeper were having their mid- morning cup of tea. Both looked startled to see me enter that room, and apprehensive, because normally I would have simply rung for service, so what was wrong?"""										
"""“Mrs. Bailey,” I croaked to the cook, “I do not feel quite well. My throat is most dreadfully sore. Do you suppose – ”"""										
"""“Of course,” cried Mrs. Bailey, relieved, answering my request before I could frame it. Illness, you see, explained my presence in the kitchen,"										
"which due to hearth, stove, and water-heater was by far the warmest place"										
"in the house. “Tea?” She jumped up to"" put the kettle on."										
“The very thing. Thank you kindly.”										
"""“Do sit down, Miss Meshle,” invited the other one, Mrs. Fitzsimmons, the housekeeper, offering me the chair closest to the fire."""										
"""At the table with the two of them, I sipped, briefly answering their inquiries about my health, after which they resumed their conversation. Mrs. Bailey had been to a music-hall the night before to see a Mesmerist, or magnetiser, “one of them pursy, swarthy, shaggy-browed Frenchmen with wolf eyes.” He had been assisted by “a wench in one of them French clinging gowns” who lay on an examining- couch while he had her stare at the usual shiny object"""										
"""– in this case, a candle-flame – and flicked his hands at her face as if sprinkling her with his “vital principle,” then made the customary magnetic passes over her entire person. “Scandalous close to ’er ’is  ’ands come, but ’ee didn’t touch her. She lay wit ’er eyes open like a corpse, an’ ’ee told ’er to eat soap an’ she chewed it down like it was toffee.’Ee told ’er she were a pony an’ she whinnied. ’Ee told her she were a bridge, picked ’er up an’ put ’er down again across two chairs and there she lay stiff like stone. ’Ee fired a pistol near her ear . . .”"" ""Sitting and listening, I concealed my impatience with difficulty, for it was all jugglery and rot, of course; Mesmerism had been discredited years ago, along with dead bodies electrically “galvanised” into the appearance of life, incorporeal table-turning, spiritualist slate-writing and all sorts of nonsense masquerading as science and progress."""										
"""“. . . invited us to come up and test the trance. One gent pinched ’er, and ’is wife passed smelling salts under ’er nose, and me, I run a ’atpin into her an’ she never so much as twitched. Then after we was done the Mesmerist made more of them magnetic passes with his hands, and up she jumps, all smiling, an’ we give ’em both a real big clap of our’ands as they went out. Then, the next thing, there was a Phrenologist – ”"""										
"""Oh, no. More pseudo-scientific dust of the past."""										
"""I interrupted. “Is it true,” I asked, “that the Queen once shaved her head for a Phrenological reading?”"""										
"""They could scarcely believe it (no wonder, as I had just made it up, thereby, I am sure, spawning a rumour) but anything was possible: Lady This and Lady That had held séances, Duke So-and-so somnambulated, several young Honourable Lords had experimented with laughing gas, et cetera. I had succeeded in changing the subject to the fascinating foibles of the upper classes – about which, like most domestics, these two knew everything. Scandal might"""										
"""be “hushed up” in the newspapers, but no event in any London household was secret so long as there were servants to whisper with other people’s maids and footmen. Accepting a second cup of tea, I waited for"""										
my opportunity. It came when a member of the peerage was mentioned.										
"""Coughing for attention and sympathy, I asked, “Would he be acquainted with Sir Eustace Alistair?”"""										
“ ’Im? I doubt it!” declared Mrs. Fitzsimmons.										
"""“Sir Eustace is just a baronet, don’t ye know,” said the cook."""										
"""“And disgraced, to boot,” said the housekeeper with a hushed voice and zestful eyes."""										
"I reacted with satisfactory shock and interest. “Disgraced? How so?” ""“By ’is daughter, Lady Cecily! Shameful affair.” “ ’Orrendous for ’er parents,” said the cook."""										
"""“One’ears Lady Alistair is quite prostrated, she is.”"""										
"""The housekeeper replied, the cook interjected, and during the next several minutes between the two of them the story took form, in my mind at least, like a structure emerging from a fog:"""										
"""The Honourable Lady Cecily Alistair, Sir Eustace’s second oldest, just"										
"sixteen years of age and not yet presented at court, had gone missing Tuesday of last week, on which morning a ladder had been found at her bedroom window. Upon being questioned by police authorities, girl-friends of Lady Cecily admitted to her having been approached last summer, while in their company (“ ’ardly never no chaperones anymore, and them girls ’orseback riding, bicycle riding, shopping on their own, wot’s the world coming to?”)"""										
"""by a young “gent,” that is to say, a man of dandified attire but  doubtful pedigree. Further inquiry and a search of Lady Cecily’s desk revealed that she and the young man had been corresponding, quite without a proper introduction or the knowledge of her parents. It had taken the police, who had only a first name to work with, four days to locate this impertinent male, who had turned out to be a mere shopkeeper’s son with  no proper sense of his place, very likely with aspirations above his station in life; by then, of"""										
"""course, it was Far Too Late (“ ’orrible if she married ’im, an’ even worse if she didn’t”). But as it turned out, she had not been found with him. The young man had protested in the strongest terms his innocence of any wrongdoing. (“Rubbish. Men wants only one thing.”) He had been watched and followed since, but no sign of Lady Cecily had been discovered."""										
"""“More tea, Miss Meshle?”"""										
"""I smiled and shook my head. “No, Mrs. Bailey, thank you very much. I think – I believe I must go attend to business now.”"""										
"""Returning to the front of the establishment, I withdrew from my own  outer office into Dr. Ragostin’s, instructing Joddy that I was on no account to be disturbed. I often napped in Dr. Ragostin’s office during the days, after I had been out all night as the Sister. Judging by  Joddy’s impertinent grin, which I ignored, he thought I intended to spend a few hours"""										
swaddled in “Afghans” on Dr. Ragostin’s comfortable chintz sofa.										
This was what I wished him and the other servants to think.										
"""Aside from the aforementioned sofa facing the hearth, Dr. Ragostin’s inner sanctum featured a rather grandiose desk I had provided for that fictitious personage, leather armchairs for his clients, and the resplendent Turkish carpet upon which those furnishings stood. Between heavily draped windows stood a tall bookshelf, and other bookshelves lined"""										
"""the three remaining walls entirely, except of course that gas sconces upon long mirrors (to reflect the light) separated them. Such plenitude of bookshelves"""										
had been left behind by the previous occupant – a so- called spiritualist medium. This had been the séance room.										
"""After locking its door from the inside, closing the thick serge drapes for privacy, and turning up the gas- jet chandelier to illuminate the resulting gloom, I walked to the first bookshelf on the inner wall. There I reached behind a stout volume of Pope’s essays, released a silent  latch, then pulled the left edge of the bookshelf towards me. With only fingertip pressure, and utterly without sound – for the hinges were perfectly hung and lavishly oiled – the entire shelf swung open like a door to reveal a small room behind it."""										
"""Here, I felt sure, the medium’s accomplices had"" hidden."										
"""I, however, used the closet-sized space to hide items of another sort."" ""Which I now needed. In order to be received at the baronet’s residence, I could not go as Ivy Meshle. I needed to effect a transformation."""										
"""I lit a candle. Then, shivering with cold – for there was no fire laid on in this room – I pulled off Ivy Meshle’s cheap flounced-poplin dress,"										
along with the bulbous brooch she always wore – with a purpose. Welded to										
"my dagger hilt, this brooch looked like an ornament pinned to my dress- front, but actually allowed my weapon’s handle to protrude between my buttons. Grasping the “brooch,” I drew the dagger from my corset with a flourish, admiring its shining, thin, razor-edged blade a moment before laying it aside."""										
"""I laid aside also Ivy Meshle’s false hair, earbobs, et cetera, until I stood in my underpinnings, the most essential of which, ironically, was my corset."""										
"""Yes, despite my opinion of corsets, I wore one always – but as my protective friend, never tightened to become my tormentor. For me, a corset provided not constraint, but the freedom it gave by furnishing defense, disguise, and supplies. Aside from sheathing my dagger, the corset supported my Bust Enhancer (where I concealed many useful items,"" including a small fortune in Bank of England notes) by"										
"""which, along with Hip Regulators, I maintained a figure quite different than that of the unembellished Enola Holmes."""										
"""Undressed, then, except for padding, protection, and petticoats, I bent to a basin and washed away my rouge, grimacing, for the water I kept in the closet was all but freezing, then looked at a mirror. My own long, plain, sallow face, framed by my own long, plain brownish hair, looked back at me."""										
"""The hair was a problem. In order to pass as a woman, you see, I had to wear it up. Girls wore their frocks short and their hair long, but women had to wear their dresses long and their hair “up.” While almost every other inch of a gentlewoman must be covered during the daytime, her ears, it seemed, must be always bared."""										
"""Today I needed to pass as a gentlewoman. Such ladies, however, had maids to arrange their hair for them, and I had none."""										
"""I will spare the gentle reader the details of the struggle. Suffice it  to say that nearly an hour later a gentlewoman with her hair up – and mostly hidden beneath a formidable hat – emerged from behind a bookshelf. I wore a grey day-dress custom-made of the finest worsted, yet discreet, almost dowdy, in its styling. And yes, with a brooch centered upon its bosom – this time a tasteful oval made of mother- ofpearl. I possessed, you see, more than one dagger."""										
"""I put on quite a lovely fur cloak, with a dainty little muff to match, before closing – and concealing – my “dressing-room.” Then, approaching a different bookcase, the one that stood by the outer wall, I reached  behind another stout tome (Pilgrim’s Progress), manipulated another  hidden latch, and slipped out of Dr. Ragostin’s office by the secret door."""										
CHAPTER THE FIFTH										
MY CRAFTY PREDECESSOR HAD PLACED THIS										
"""exit well. I emerged behind a bushy evergreen that grew in the narrow space between houses. From there, I was able to make my way to the street satisfied that no one could possibly have seen me leave, not even that sharp-eyed Mrs. Fitzsimmons, who had probably verbally dissected me with Mrs. Bailey the moment my back was turned: Poor dear, with more’n enough nose and chin but barely anything else, a woman can tell; if any man ever marries ’er ee’ll find ’imself sorely deceived."""										
"""Dealing with my miserable hair – the colour of bog mud, and as limp as the rotting vegetation thereof – had put me in a bad humour. Once safely in a four- wheeler cab, I pulled paper and pencil from one of my pockets and drew a quick, rather rude sketch of Mrs. Fitzsimmons and Mrs. Bailey with their old-fashioned white ruffled house-caps bent together in gossip, their shrewd baggy eyes, their lipless gabbling mouths – rather like a pair of turtles, actually."""										
"""Then, having got temper out of the way, I more calmly sketched a picture of a young gentlewoman in a fur cloak and muff and a brimmed velvet hat"										
trimmed with grebe feathers. Beneath this elegant headgear she peered										
"nearsightedly, for no lady, however faulty her vision, will wear glasses. So gently reared as to be nearly helpless, she walked with her head bent and her shoulders drawn in, very plain despite her fine clothing."""										
"""Dr. Ragostin’s shy child bride, Mrs. Ragostin."""										
"""By drawing this, I reminded myself who I was being today."""										
"""When the urge to sketch seized me, I could have drawn Ivy Meshle if I wanted to, or Mum, or Sherlock or Mycroft, or just about anyone I knew except Enola Holmes. My true self I could not quite capture on paper. Odd."""										
"""The cab took me to a fashionable street. As it pulled to a halt, I stowed my papers deep in a pocket; on two occasions Sherlock Holmes had seen my drawings, and I must be careful never to give myself away by leaving any behind. When I returned to my lodgings, I would burn the sketches."""										
"""Alighting at the corner, with both silk-gloved hands tucked into my muff I waited until the cab had driven away. You see, while only dowagers wore bustles anymore – mercy be thanked, their clumsy bulk was going out of fashion – still, a gentlewoman must trail a train. The hem of my long cloak and back of my even longer skirt dragged upon the icy cobbles, indicating the social class of one who rode in carriages. So I stood  where I was until the cab had departed. Dr."""										
"""Ragostin, I knew, really ought to keep his own little"" ""brougham and pair, but there were limits, however"""										
"""generous, to the funds Mum had provided me. Fortunately, I seldom needed be Mrs. Ragostin."""										
"""Very fortunately, as I wore my own unaltered face for this purpose. Ivy Meshle could hide behind rouge, fair-hued hair additions, and cheap baubles, but no lady could do so."""										
"""As I stood on the corner, two top-hatted gentlemen"""										
"""strode past me with glares of disapproval. “My wife stays at home where she belongs, none of this peripatetic nonsense,” grumbled one to his companion. “That young lady will bring trouble on herself, wandering  about alone,” the other agreed, “and ’twill be her own fault.” I ignored them, and tried not to let their comments darken the day, which was quite gloomy enough already; although the clocks had just struck one in the afternoon, a lamplighter climbed his ladder, for with the London sky  thick with smoke, fog, and soot it might as well have been evening. All over the rooftops of the city, chimneys stood like dark candles spewing smut. Workmen and cleaning- women walked past me coughing; someone would die of the catarrh today."""										
"""A ragged little girl with a broom approached me; at my nod the child hurried to sweep the crossing for me, banishing from my path the muck of soot, stone dust, mud, and horse droppings that always coated the street."""										
"""Following the child to the other side, I tipped her generously – a penny, not just a farthing – then, myself willy-nilly “sweeping” the pavement with my train, I progressed towards my destination: the residence of Sir Eustace Alistair."""										
"""Upon the massive front door I found a large brass knocker in the shape of a lion’s head. Remembering to strike timidly, as befit Mrs. Ragostin, I employed it."""										
"""Presently the door was opened by a maid all shining in afternoon black, behind whom stood an equally resplendent butler."""										
"""“Her ladyship is not receiving visitors,” the butler told me, his manner as cold as the winter day."""										
"""“Her ladyship is not feeling well? If you would just take up this card, and my sympathies,” I said in the voice of an exceedingly well-bred mouse."""										
"""Balefully he fetched his silver tray, upon which I laid the card of Dr."										
"Leslie T. Ragostin, Scientific Perditorian, on which I had penned “Mrs.”"" ""“I sent the carriage away,” I murmured. “One must be discreet.” This to explain the absence of a footman or any other accompanying servant."										
"Stepping inside, for they could hardly leave such a welldressed lady freezing upon the doorstep, I added, “I will just warm myself by the fire.”"""										
"""The maid was good enough to take my cloak and muff – not my hat; a lady’s hat and hair, once arranged, remained inseparable. Hatted and gloved"""										
"""indoors, I could not have looked more absurdly upper-"" class."										
"""Still, loitering in the rather grand parlour, I had no idea whether Lady Theodora – that was the wife’s name, Theodora; I had looked up “Alistair, Sir Eustace, Baronet” in Dr. Ragostin’s copy of Boyles to find the  address – as I say, I did not know whether the lady would condescend to see me. She might find my unexpected arrival a straw worth grasping at."										
"On the other hand, depending on whether pride outweighed desperation, she might consider such presumption to be the last straw."""										
"""Trying to imagine the dialogue taking place upstairs, I could only hope the lady understood what perditorian meant, and that the butler had been sufficiently impressed by my apparel and demeanour."""										
"""“Ahem.” The butler reappeared at the parlour door, and while he looked as disapproving as ever, he told me, “Lady Theodora is not dressed to receive you in the morning-room, but she wonders whether you would care to step into her boudoir for a few moments.”"""										
Ah. Just as I had hoped. Although I must now proceed with the greatest delicacy.										
"""Following the butler upstairs, I heard youthful voices issuing from a nursery on the floor above, where a nanny, or perhaps a governess, attempted to civilise the Alistair children. The Honourable Lady Cecily, according to Boyles, had no less than seven brothers and sisters.""     ""Such being the case, it is amazing how youthful in appearance Lady Theodora turned out to be. Or perhaps such was the effect of her grief"										
"plus her perfectly lovely, lacy tea-frock. A recent fad instigated by the artwork of Kate Greenaway, tea-frocks allowed one to go without a corset when receiving (female only!) visitors in one’s personal rooms. In the high- waisted, comfortable, very pretty garment, Lady Theodora appeared charming and almost childlike, whereas I would have looked a proper stork in one."""										
"""She did not immediately turn to me as I stepped in at the door. With maids in fluttering attendance, fussing with her long curls of auburn hair, she remained upon a dainty chair facing her dressing- table, powdering her tear-stained face, so that I saw her first in the mirror."" ""Our eyes met in a glass darkly, as it were. Remembering to be bashful, I glanced away."""										
"""I am sure she took a good long look at me while I stood gazing up and around like a tourist in a European cathedral. Actually, the room was rather similar to Mum’s at home – light and airy with Japanese screens  and furniture carved in the delicate Oriental fashion. Not so grand. But  I must seem awed. Timid, I reminded myself mentally. Married young, naïve and terribly plain. No threat to anyone."""										
"""“That will do.” Turning, Lady Theodora shrugged off"""										
"""a filmy combing-jacket and shooed the servants away with her hands."										
"“Mrs. Ragostin, please sit down.”"""										
"""I perched on the edge of a settee. “My, um, apologies for intruding upon you in this, um, that is to say, unseemly manner, quite without a proper introduction, Lady Alistair, and at such a difficult . . .” I allowed my barely audible murmurings to trail away in a pretense of confusion  because I, a stranger, was not supposed to know that this was a difficult"										
time for her. Although she knew perfectly well that I did know; why else										
"would I be there?"""										
"""She spared me further pretense. “Your husband sent you, Mrs. Ragostin?”"" ""I lifted my lowered eyes to Lady Theodora’s pretty face – no, beautiful: This was a beautiful woman."""										
"""Somewhat square of jaw and full of mouth, but with brilliant eyes, her expression remarkably cultured and sensitive. A society lady who was not usually so direct, I imagined. Much more the type to play the game of social dissembling to its fullest, dealing in hints and intimations and coyness. Only extremity could drive her to be so blunt."""										
"""“Um, yes,” I faltered. “Dr. Ragostin felt that it would be indelicate for him to – to venture here himself, you know . . .”"""										
"""Once more the stumbling halt, allowing her the choice, whether to speak of that which the whole world knew but was not supposed to know."""										
"""Lady Theodora stiffened for only a moment before she nodded. I have often noticed how a proud and beautiful woman will find a friend in one who is plain, quiet, and humble. “Yes,” she said in a low voice, “my daughter, Lady Cecily, seems to have – that is – I, or rather, we, her parents, don’t know where she is. Am I correct to understand that your husband finds persons who have gone missing?”"""										
"""“Yes, quite so.”"""										
“He is offering his services?”										
"""“If you wish. But with no expectation of reward, my lady.”"""										
"""“Indeed.” She did not believe this; she thought it more than likely that Dr. Ragostin was opportunistic and a sham, but at the same time –"""										
"""She said it. “I am desperate, Mrs. Ragostin.” Watching my face, she  spoke with deliberate control, but I could see her trembling. “There has been no news of my daughter – none! – for a week, and the authorities seem utterly ineffectual. Surely your husband can do no worse. No doubt I am being a fool, for I am under orders to summon no one on my own, but I can hardly be blamed if you have come to me. I cannot help feeling that a providential God may have sent you here, however self-serving – not you personally, I mean, but your husband – no offense intended.”"""										
"""“None taken, I assure you, Lady Theodora.” I"""										
"""allowed my shy, apologetic gaze to drift towards her. “Most preposterous, my being here, but husbands will have their way.”"""										
"""I could not have struck a stronger empathic chord in her. “Oh, Mrs. Ragostin!” She actually leaned forward to clasp my gloved hands. “How true! The men run everything, yet they are so wrong! In my heart I know that my Cecily has not – would not go anywhere they say she has. And the fact that they have not found her shows me to be correct. Yet they persist in believing ."""										
. . How awful. Even my husband . . .”										
"""I nodded, thinking ahead to guide the conversation without, I hoped, her noticing. “Is your husband very much older than you are, Lady Theodora?”"" “Only a few years. But – is Dr. Ragostin greatly your senior?”"										
"""“Yes. I am his third wife. Why, I am not much older than . . .”"" ""She said it for me. Whispered it, actually. “Than my daughter. Lady Cecily.”"""										
"""“Indeed. Quite. Therefore, I was thinking . . .” “Yes?” Already we had become co-conspirators;"""										
"""our knees almost touched, she sat so close to me, clinging to my hands."" ""“I wonder if, as a girl of Lady Cecily’s age, I might notice something that the police detectives have overlooked . . .”"""										
"""“Oh, how I wish you would, Mrs. Ragostin! I have been longing to do something . . . but what? And how?”"""										
"""I almost forgot to play my role, but remembered in time to hesitate, biting my lip, before I said, “Well . . . one must start somewhere. If it is at all possible, Lady Theodora, might I examine Lady Cecily’s rooms?”"" CHAPTER THE SIXTH"										
"""FIRST, OF COURSE, WE TOOK TEA. THEN,"""										
"""complicity and friendship sealed over the soothing hot beverage and its accompanying marmalade tarts, Lady Theodora called for Lady Cecily’s personal maid, who escorted me to the Honourable Lady Cecily’s rooms."" ""The usual thing for gentry is to have one’s bed in a room with a dressing-closet, behind another room where servants and friends come in and out. I walked straight through to look at Lady Cecily’s bedchamber, and it appeared at first glance to be sweetness itself, with a carved and daintily painted sleigh bed, more suitable, I thought, for a girl than  for a young lady."""										
"""Perhaps her mum had tried to keep her a baby? In a corner sat the usual dollhouse, meant to encourage domestic pride, but it did not look as if Lady Cecily enjoyed that sort of thing any better than I did. Her expensive china and porcelain dolls stood neglected on their shelves, dusty even inside their glass cases. Nor, I thought, glancing at similar glass “bells” on the mantelpiece, did she enjoy the genteel craft of moulding roses out of coloured wax."""										
"“Did Lady Cecily make those herself?” I asked the maid to be sure. ""“Yes, ma’am. My young lady was – ah, is – well versed in all handicrafts.”"""										
The wax “flowers” looked more like shapeless blobs.										
"""On the walls hung small, framed pastels: old woman knitting by the fire, country maiden with a basket of eggs, rosy-cheeked child holding a puppy, et cetera."""										
“Did Lady Cecily draw those?”										
"""“Yes, ma’am. Lady Cecily is quite the artist.” Debatable, I thought even as I nodded. The pastels,"""										
"""like the wax flowers, appeared colourful but uncertain, their lines and forms much blurred."""										
"""“Lady Cecily has had voice lessons, too, and ballet. In every way she is most accomplished.”"""										
"""Fit for the marriage market, in other words, as my brothers wanted me to be: a singing, dancing, French-quoting, delicately fainting decoration to any aristocratic drawing-room."""										
I wondered how Lady Cecily felt about her “accomplishments.”										
"""Aside from the sleigh bed, I saw a similarly ornate wardrobe, a dresser, and a washstand in the young lady’s bedroom. On the dresser stood the usual “set”: ring-stand, silver-embossed comb and brush, hand mirror, cut-glass toilet water bottles, hair tidy. I glanced into the wardrobe, scanning the usual apparel of an aristocratic miss: morningdresses, afternoon-dresses, visiting-dresses, Sunday best, evening-gowns, riding habit, cycling costume, tennis-"""										
"""dress, ad infinitum. “Has it been ascertained what"""										
"""Lady Cecily was wearing at the time of her, ah, departure?”"""										
"""“Yes, ma’am. It would seem that she . . .” The maid blushed. “She was garbed for slumber, ma’am."""										
Nothing else is missing.”										
"""“Indeed. Was her bed slept in?” “Yes, ma’am.”"""										
"""One window faced the back of the house, and one faced the side. “At which of these was the ladder placed?”"""										
"""The maid indicated the one at the back of the house, out of view of the street."""										
"""“And the window was found open?” “Yes, ma’am.”"""										
"""“Were any windows or doors downstairs opened?” “No, ma’am. The downstairs doors were locked"""										
"""and barred, and the windows snibbed.” “But these windows were not snibbed?”"""										
"""“No, ma’am.” The maid sounded as if she pitied my ignorance. “To improve their health, all members of the baronet’s family sleep with the window slightly raised, ma’am, winter or summer, ma’am.”"""										
"""Unsurprising; I myself had been raised the same way. Ventilation"										
"strengthened the moral resolve of one’s digestion and so forth against disease, and guarded one’s personage against laxness. Therefore, even during the coldest weather, fit to frost one’s nightcap, a window had to be left open an inch or so."""										
“So the window sash could have been raised by someone on the ladder outside.”										
"""“Yes, ma’am.”"""										
"""“And it was left that way, wide open, with the ladder at the sill?”"" ""“Yes, ma’am.”"""										
"""I backtracked into Lady Cecily’s boudoir, a sizable room lavished with mirrors, chairs, settees, a needlepoint fire-screen (Lady Cecily’s accomplishment, no doubt), potted ferns in the bay window, and near that source of light, Lady Cecily’s easel and art stand."""										
"""And – I thought, at the time, more important – a roll- top desk."" ""I opened the desk first. “Some letters were found in here, I understand?”"""										
"""“Yes, ma’am. The police took them, ma’am.”"""										
"""“Did they search this desk for other documents?” “No, ma’am!” The maid sounded shocked. “Lady"""										
Theodora discovered the letters and took them downstairs to the officers.”										
"""In other words, no detective had been allowed to set foot in these rooms."""										
"""“Quite so,” I said approvingly as I seated myself at the desk to have a look."""										
"""Fervidly I wished I could have seen the letters themselves, not only for content but also for any"""										
indications Scotland Yard might have overlooked.										
"""“Were the postage-stamps positioned oddly, or reversed ?” If so, it would suggest a code."""										
"""“The letters did not come through the post, ma’am!” I had shocked the maid again. Probably the formidable butler oversaw all postal correspondence."""										
"""“How so, then?” By hand, obviously, but by whose hand?"" ""“We, ah, we do not know. Ma’am.”"""										
"""With the complicity of one of the servants, in other words. Perhaps this very maid, Lily by name. And that line of inquiry had already been exhausted."""										
"""The surface of the desk was occupied by an exquisite writing set, ink- bottle and fountain pens, pen-holder and letter-opener all of jade. In  the drawers, along with the usual blotting-paper, pen- wipers and such, I found the lady’s monogrammed stationery and several sticks of sealing-wax in different colours: red for business correspondence, blue for constancy in love, grey for friendship, yellow for jealousy, green for  encouragement of a shy lover, violet for condolences. But only the grey stick of wax looked much used."""										
"""Also in the drawers I found Lady Cecily’s address- book, well kept in the petite, curlicue handwriting of an aristocratic miss. I found sundry other papers: shopping lists, reminders of social obligations, moral exhortations themed around the letters of the"""										
"""alphabet, that sort of thing."""										
"""Much more important, I found a stack of journals. “Lady Cecily kept diaries?” The silk-covered"""										
"""volumes were equipped with tiny padlocks. “Yes, ma’am.”"""										
"But the padlocks had been broken open. “Did the police look at these?” ""“No, ma’am!”"""										
"""“Lady Theodora, then?”"""										
"""“Yes, ma’am. In the mirror, ma’am.”"""										
"""“I beg your pardon?” But as I spoke, I took one of the books, opened it,"										
"and gawked at the handwriting therein. Large, childishly plain, and all slanted leftward"""										
"""– utterly unlike the handwriting of the address book and other papers – it made no sense to me until I realised it was written from right to left, its words running from right to left with even their letters reversed, so that b looked like d."""										
"""“How very peculiar!” I exclaimed. Getting up, I held the diary open towards a standing mirror, in which I could easily read,"""										
"most frightfully cold. I am wearing no less than nine petticoats ""As a cipher, this backwards writing was hardly"""										
worth bothering with.										
"“Why in the world did she write that way?” ""“I don’t know, ma’am.”"""										
"""“Did you ever see her do it?” “No, ma’am.”"""										
"""Like any loyal servant, of course she had seen nothing."""										
"""There were eight diaries, all of them in the same odd leftward writing, unchanged over a period of years. Settling upon the most recent diary, the only one with blank pages at the – the beginning, actually, as the diaries had been written from the back towards the front – I turned to the last (first) entry, then held it to the mirror and read."""										
"""January 2 – I am so dreadfully bored. How can anyone talk of NewYear’s Resolutions when no amount of good intentions seems ever to alleviate the suffering in this world? And howcan they chatter of perfumes and parties, flounces and necklines and dancing slippers when the streets swarm with orphans and pauper children who have barely even rags to wear, nor shoes for their feet? While their fathers cannot find work and their mothers labour sixteen hours a day in the mills? And while I, in order to be presented to the Queen, practice walking backwards without tripping over  a nine-foot train? Mine is a life without any worthwhile purpose, without value, empty of meaning."""										
Hardly the sentiments of a young woman about to elope with her secret lover!										
With a mind full of conjecture I left Lily to replace items										
in the desk while I crossed the room to see what Lady Cecily had been drawing lately.										
"""On her easel I found an undersized and unfinished pastel of a country landscape, already turning into a shapeless mass of candy-coloured smudge. Atop her art stand lay her pastels."""										
"""Broken. Pink, peach, pale green, aqua, sky blue, lavender, powdery brown, all broken to jagged bits."""										
Most interesting.										
"""I pulled open the drawer of her art stand, finding about what one might expect: pencils, eraser, India ink and art pens still in their box, and – not in a box – sticks of charcoal. Stubs, rather, with blunted tips, dirtying all the contents of the drawer with black powder the way soot besmirched London city."""										
Quantities of charcoal lay everywhere. Worn to nubbins.										
"""I blinked at the pastel daub on the easel, not a hint of black in it anywhere."""										
"I looked around at the walls and found them innocent of any dark artwork. ""After closing the drawer, I crossed to where the"""										
"""maid was tidying the desk. “Lily, where are Lady Cecily’s charcoal drawings?”"""										
"""“Charcoal?” Moving the jade items of the lady’s writing set from one end of the desk to the other, she would not look at me. “I am sure I have no idea, ma’am.”"""										
"""I was equally sure that she did, but there was no use saying so. Instead, imagining where I would put artwork if I didn’t want anyone to"										
"see it, I went back into the lady’s bedchamber and started peering behind"										
"furniture."""										
"""In back of both the dresser and the wardrobe I could see sheets of heavy paper, quite large, leaning against the wall."""										
"""“Lily,” I called, “you’d better help me get these out, unless you want me to smear them.”"""										
"""Silently, sullenly, the girl came and helped me push the furniture a few inches away from the walls, so that I could reach behind. Taking the papers by their edges, I carried them to the other room in order to look at them in the light."""										
"""One by one I placed them upon the easel, where their size dwarfed that of the pastel."""										
"""Not only their size. Their – I scarcely know how to explain. Their temper, one might call it. Nothing could have been more unlike the pinky- bluey blurs that had been framed to hang on the walls. These charcoal drawings were rendered in heavy black strokes, knife- sharp and direct, shockingly unsoftened by any shading."""										
But the subjects were even more shocking.										
"""Scrawny, filthy children playing in a gutter beneath a clothesline strung with dead fish. Hatless women standing under a street- lamp at night to sew."""										
An unshaven man picking up cigar butts. An Italian family singing for pennies.										
A barefoot boy kneeling on the cobbles to shine a gentleman ’s boots. A ragged woman with a sickly baby “selling” matches door-to-door.										
And many more.										
People from the poorest streets of London.										
"""People depicted so boldly, so surely, with such unblinking honesty that they could not possibly have been done from imagination. One who was born to be an artist had seen them to draw them. I knew that feeling of fiery connection between eyes and heart and hand. An inspired artist had looked upon these people."""										
With passion.										
As I looked upon them with passion.										
Several of the drawings showed starving old										
"""women dozing on the workhouse steps. The poorest of the poor, these"										
"“crawlers” or “dosses” seldom found strength to move."" I knew them."										
"""And so, evidently, did Lady Cecily. But how?"" CHAPTER THE SEVENTH"										
“DR. RAGOSTIN WILL CONTACT YOU										
"""DISCREETLY,” I told Lady Theodora, “with his thoughts upon the matter.”"" ""It was fortunate that “Dr. Ragostin” was to supply the thoughts, for  mine were in a muddle worse than the most tangled yarn basket that ever was. Out of all the Gordian knot I seized upon only one strand surely, a grey one, another indication that Lady Cecily had not eloped. If her secret correspondence with the shopkeeper’s son had developed into a passionate affair, she would have used a rainbow of sealing-wax"""										
"""other than the grey. No, she had written her letters only in friendship."""										
"""She had gone off not for love, but for some other reason."""										
"""Which, I sensed, had something to do with her odd diaries. The mirror writing."""										
And something – although I could not even begin to imagine what –										
something to do with her extraordinary charcoal drawings.										
"""The latter were so unladylike and disturbing, both in their bold execution and in their choice of subjects, that I had put them back  behind the bedroom furniture and had not mentioned them to Lady Theodora. Not yet, if ever. The diaries, however, I wished to take with me."""										
"""“For my eyes only,” I assured the lady when I had a chance to speak with"										
"her privately. Reporting to her dressing-room, I had found her busy with the younger children, two little boys and a little girl romping around her chamber like puppies while she inspected a somewhat older girl for kempt hair, cleanly ears, et cetera. The girl’s face reminded me very much of Lady Cecily as I had seen her in the photographic portraits Lady Theodora had showed me over tea."""										
"""Indeed, all of the children, including Lady Cecily, much resembled their mother – generous mouth, brilliant, intelligent eyes."""										
"""Lady Theodora shooed the young Alistairs back to the care of their governess when I came in, and beckoned for me to sit close to her."" ""“I will myself read the diaries,” I explained to her after making my request, “and inform Dr. Ragostin in the most discreet terms of any indications I may find.”"""										
"""“I have looked through them,” Lady Theodora responded, “and found nothing that seemed harmful, but by all means, if you think it will help"										
"– you will take the greatest care of them?”"""										
"""I assured her I would, remembering just in time to ask her also for a recent portrait of Lady Cecily so that “Dr. Ragostin” could see what the missing miss looked like. Also, I copied down the name and address of the shopkeeper’s son with whom Lady"""										
"""Cecily had been corresponding, in case “Dr."" Ragostin” wished to question him."										
"""As I departed, Lady Theodora embraced me, kissing my cheek with the most unexpected strength of feeling."""										
"""Therefore I felt quite wretched, like a shameful fraud, as I took a cab back to Dr. Ragostin’s office. Dr. Ragostin this, Dr. Ragostin that; I  was a liar, and finding this lost girl was up to – me? A runaway upstart of fourteen? True, half the domestics and mill- hands in London were my age or younger, and true, also, that any of us who committed a crime  would be imprisoned, tried, and hanged right along with Jack the Ripper should the police ever find him – but we had no rights, none, not even a right to the money we earned, until we turned twenty-one. Legally, at age fourteen I did not yet exist. So who on Earth did I think I was – Enola Ivy Holmes Meshle Mrs. Ragostin – to attempt the monstrous hoax that was my life?"""										
"""Such were my thoughts as I slipped through the secret entry into the locked room where I transformed myself back into Ivy Meshle. My subdued frame of mind lasted through the rest of the afternoon into the evening, when I returned to my lodging with Lady Cecily’s casement photograph and journals done up, as if I had been shopping, in a brown paper parcel tied with string."""										
"""After Mrs. Tupper had provided me with a meal of herring stewed with parsnips – most unhelpful to one attempting to grow plump – I retreated upstairs to my room, made myself comfortable in warm socks and a dressing-gown, settled myself in my armchair by the hearth, and with the aid of a hand mirror began to read Lady Cecily’s most recent diary.""  ""The content was not at all what one might expect from a baronet’s daughter. I found nothing about Sunday phaeton rides in Hyde Park, holidays at the seaside, shopping along Regent Street, the latest fashions in millinery, or even a mention of a new dress. Nor did I find any accounts of her diversions with her friends. Instead, the entries were mostly troubled musings:"""										
""". . . a great deal of talk about the Poor Law, the “deserving poor” versus those who are undeserving. Unfortunates who have been blinded, crippled, et cetera through no fault of their own are regarded as worthy of charitable aid, but all of those who are physically able, Daddy says, must be morally deficient, lazy, and undeserving of consideration; the beggars should continue to be whipped out of town as has been the custom,"										
"or else go to the workhouse. But if work is such a great good, why, then,"										
"does"""										
the workhouse punish its inmates with										
dinners of thin gruel after their long hours of the hardest possible labour?										
. . . social Darwinism and the survival of the										
"""fittest would hold that there is no such category as “deserving” poor. Those who have showed themselves unable to support themselves should be let alone as Nature takes its course, eliminating them, making way for a superior human race. Of which we of the titled classes, I suppose, are examples? Because we can quote Shakespeare, play Chopin upon the piano, and keep our gloves clean while taking"""										
tea?										
"""What of the babies? For the most part, the"""										
"""poverty-stricken people who are succumbing to Darwin’s selective process have already reproduced. By this way of thinking, should the babies also be abandoned to perish?"""										
. . . the Great Unwashed of the East End are										
"""not themselves intellectually capable of organising unions and marches, Daddy declares; some outside influence, very likely foreign and enemy, must be to blame for the disturbances, and the police are"""										
"""fully justified in bloodying heads in order to put a halt to any further and more serious uprisings. He does not deny that the mill- workers live in fever-nests unfit for pigs and toil until they fall down, like galley- slaves under the whips of heartless foremen – but he does not seem to  feel that they deserve any better. He does not seem to feel that they are people like us at all. It is so difficult for me to sit and fold my hands in my lap, smile sweetly and listen . . ."""										
"""After reading this and much more, I still considered myself a fraud, for my weary brain, while sympathetic to Lady Cecily’s point of view, could make nothing practical of it."""										
"""Slumber, I decided, was needful. Sleep would knit up the ravelled sleave of care, to quote some Shakespeare myself. Or, in this case, sleep would tidy my yarn-basket mind."""										
"""Thus, without admitting that I was afraid, I excused myself from venturing forth in habit and black cowl that night. Instead, I went to bed."""										
"""Awakening what seemed like a moment afterward,"" I found that it was morning."										
"""Somehow, while I had slept so soundly – unusual for me – the muddle in my mind had indeed sorted"""										
"""itself out a bit, so that a thread of reasoning presented itself to me, thus:"""										
I had come to London; I had seen London’s poor; I had felt impelled to help them.										
"""Lady Cecily, by the evidence of her charcoal drawings, also had seen. I did not yet know how this highly irregular encounter had come to pass,  nor did I know whether it had happened before or after her questioning journal entries, but somehow (and I must find out how) the young lady had walked amongst London’s poor."""										
Had she also felt impelled to help them?										
"Had she perhaps left home of her own free will?    ""Settling into my office to “work” as Ivy Meshle, I read"""										
"""the morning newspapers. Finding no communication from Mum, I tossed the news of the day into the fire, then rang for tea."""										
"""Meanwhile, in a contemplative frame of mind, I got out Lady Cecily’s photographic portrait and a sheaf of foolscap paper. Referring to the portrait, I pencilled a quick likeness of the lady. Then, putting the photograph away, I drew her head in profile, recalling other photographs I had seen of her, combining those memories with my observations of her"										
"mother and brothers and sisters, all of whom so strongly resembled one"										
"another. Over and over again I sketched Lady Cecily, with no aristocratic finery, just her face, from various angles until I began to feel that I had met her in person."""										
"""Deep in my work, I had not noticed Joddy entering the office with my tea. Unaware of the boy’s presence, I jumped when his piping voice spoke from behind my shoulder: “I didn’t know you could draw like that!”"""										
"""It was not his place to comment, but luckily it took me a startled moment to catch my breath before I told him so. And in that moment he spoke again. “I know ’er,” he declared, setting down the tea-tray, then pointing at my portraits of Lady Cecily with his stubby white-gloved forefinger."""										
Ridiculous. He could not possibly – Wait a minute.										
"""“Indeed?” I tried not to show how interested I was, for like any servant he would draw himself into a shell if I questioned him too sharply. I  kept my tone carefully neutral. “What is her name?”"""										
"""“I don’t know ’er like that. I’ve seen her someplace, is all.”"" ""“Where, pray tell?” “I don’t remember.”"""										
I swivelled to observe him. There he stood with a										
"""faraway gaze, as if trying to recall a dream. “Was she in a carriage?”"" ""He shook his head slowly, looking puzzled, before he remembered his manners. “No, my – no, Miss Meshle. She were standing on a corner, like.”"""										
"""“Where? Piccadilly, Trafalgar Square, Seven Dials?”"""										
“I don’t know.”										
"""“Well then, doing what? Shopping?” “No, I don’t think so . . .” Uncertain."""										
"""My patience beginning to wear thin, I grumbled, “Selling matches?” A ridiculous notion, for only beggars sold matches."""										
"""But, looking mildly startled, Joddy murmured, “Matches. Strike.”"" ""Bean-headed boy, of course one struck a match in order to light it."										
"Restraining myself from rolling my eyes, and trying to keep my impatience out of my tone, I tried another question. “What was she wearing?”"""										
"""Of course he did not answer what I had asked. “She ’ad somethin’ in a basket,” he said."""										
"""As did half the populace of London, I thought, and the other half had something in a barrow. Common folk lived penny-in-hand to pastry-in- mouth, most of them, lacking icebox to keep food or stove to prepare dinner, eating sooty messes they bought from street vendors, the poor living off the poor. “Something in a basket? What?” I asked, utterly surprised and a bit sarcastic, for surely the flea-brained boy had to be mistaken. “Roly-poly puddings?”"""										
"""“No, Miss Meshle, nothin’ like that. I think it were papers.”"""										
“You think you saw this girl selling newspapers?”										
"""I should have kept my mouth closed, or at the very least, my tone under better control."""										
"""“No, my – um, no, Miss Meshle.” Frightened into stupidity, Joddy would be of no further use."""										
"""Indeed, after a few more attempts, I found that there was nothing more to be got out of him. “That will do. Thank you, Joddy.”"""										
"""After he had left, I muttered several naughty things in a low tone, then dismissed the episode from my mind. The frustrating, addlepated boy had probably seen some other pretty girl."""										
"""Sipping my tea and, I admit, admiring my own artwork"""										
"""for a few minutes before I burned it in the fire, I continued to mull over the matter of the missing Lady Cecily."""										
"""I discarded the absurd notion that she had eloped, for reasons already mentioned, and also because she would hardly have gone off in her nightgown! Rather, in preparation for such a romantic escapade, she would have been waiting in her most fetching frock."""										
"""But supposing her escapade, rather than being"""										
"""romantic, had involved any of the poorer neighborhoods of London – well, the essence remained the same: She would not have gone in a nightgown."										
"Had she perhaps secreted some more humble apparel for herself, and hidden the nightgown to make it appear –"""										
"What? That she had been snatched from her bed by a kidnapper? ""And forcibly carried down a ladder? Nonsense. Impossible, in my experience of ladders."""										
Had the ladder been placed at her window as a blind?										
"""If she had gone away on her own, how had she travelled? Had anyone assisted her?"""										
I had too many questions and not enough answers. Presently I rang the bell again.										
"""“Joddy,” I told the boy-in-buttons when he appeared, “go fetch me a cab.”"""										
Miss Meshle was going shopping.										
"""But not in any of the establishments I normally frequented. I had the cab, which cost sixpence a mile, drop me at the nearest railway station – much less expensive, as I had to travel some small distance, to a  northern part of London where I particularly wanted to visit a certain commercial establishment: Ebenezer Finch & Son Emporium."""										
"""Exiting the train at St. Pancras Station – a frothy architectural confection if I ever saw one – I walked a few blocks. As Ivy Meshle, an ordinary office worker whose skirt, while decently concealing her ankles, did not trail in the dirt, I attracted leers instead of glares. This time the top-hatted gentlemen took no notice of me at all, and no one  suggested it would be my own fault if I came to harm – but male clerks ogled from shop doorways, and a working-class loiterer spoke to me: “ ’Ow do you do, sweet’eart ? What’s yer ’urry? Stop an’ chat a bit.”"" ""Pretending I had not heard, without so much as a glance I strode past him. Thank goodness he did not follow, as had been known to happen."										
"Indeed, a slop- girl walking in the slums enjoyed more peace than any decent female on city streets. I found it necessary to ignore several other male pests before I finally spied my destination.""    ""Approaching Ebenezer Finch & Son Emporium, I felt my eyes widen, for"										
"never had I seen such capacious bow windows flanking the door of a shop, or so many polished brass dress forms upon which were displayed the latest strait-belted fashions. In, I might add, the most startling of chemically derived colours."""										
"""Walking inside provided even more of a shock to my sensibilities. One must understand that shopping as I knew it consisted of entering a stationer’s dark little establishment, or an apothecary’s, or a draper’s,"""										
"""for instance, and telling the fusty blacksuited man"""										
"""behind the counter what of his particular merchandise one wanted, upon which he would either bring an item forth from storage or else take down an order."""										
"""Shopping was logical and dull. But this Ebenezer Finch & Son Emporium, brilliantly gas-lit even in the daytime, was so far from dull that it arrested the"""										
"""logical workings of the mind. Its merchandise flaunted, attracted, distracted, dazed. On the panelled walls"""										
"""and the varnished wooden counter-tops and even hanging from the ceiling were displayed an astounding variety of wares: bolts of fabric and trimming; hats, gloves, and shawls; tools and padlocks; wooden toys and tin soldiers; kitchen cutlery of all sorts; buckets and watering-cans; caps and aprons and wrought-iron coat hooks, china figurines, fancy-ware, flowers and ribbons, swags of lace and chiffon – it was as if I had stepped into an ocular whirlpool."""										
"""At first, saturated with colour, sheen, and flutter, I could scarcely"										
"make sense of my surroundings. It was as if everywhere I looked,  something shiny attempted to steal away my vital principle like a Mesmerist’s watch winking on its chain. But exerting an effort of will to sort out the spectacle before me, I began to notice that different categories of items were stored and displayed in different areas attended by different clerks – many of them female clerks, I saw with relief"""										
"""– behind counters that seemed to stretch for a mile. The shop was necessarily quite large, scarcely to be called a shop at all; indeed, this was my first experience of what came to be known as a “department” store."""										
"""I wondered what constant exposure to this place might do to those who worked here. Hatters went mad and painters became poisoned; labourers in cotton mills grew stunted if they did not sicken and die; this “emporium” also seemed somehow unhealthful to me. How might such a plethora of  pretty things affect, if not the body, then the mind?"""										
"""In a prominent position just inside the door was displayed a photographic portrait of the proprietor, Ebenezer Finch, & Son. Once I had managed to rein in my runaway thoughts, I studied this likeness with interest, not so much in Ebenezer Finch as in Son."""										
Alexander Finch.										
"""Shopkeeper’s son of impudent fame, alleged seducer of Lady Cecily Alistair."""										
CHAPTER THE EIGHTH										
WITHIN THE ORNATELY FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH										
"""he appeared ordinary enough – indeed, so nondescript as to give one the impression that one had seen him somewhere before. An effect no doubt produced by the blankness of expression that is required in order to hold a pose for a camera."""										
"""Wandering further into the kaleidoscopic depths of the shop, I looked about me, ostensibly for something to buy, but actually for Mr. Alexander Finch."""										
"""I wanted to assess him. To arrive at some conclusion concerning his character. To guess at the degree of his involvement, if any, in Lady Cecily’s disappearance."""										
"""As luck would have it, I found him almost immediately, for a loud, hectoring voice caught my attention. “Alexander, a monkey could dress them windows better!”"""										
"""Looking towards the source of this ungrammatical statement, I located an office – rather an octopus affair, with pneumatic payment-and-receipt tubes running into it from all areas of the store – evidently the proprietor’s office, elevated in the emporium’s farthest corner. Through its large windows,"""										
"""presumably meant for keeping an eye on commerce, I could see Ebenezer Finch haranguing his son."""										
"""“. . . sort of colours one would expect from a screaming anarchist,” the father was blustering as he stabbed an accusing finger at his son. “Get them changed to something more tasteful straightaway.”"""										
"""“Yes, sir.” Standing with his hands folded in front of him, the younger Finch showed not the least emotion, not even a trace of angry red in his face."""										
"""“But you’re not to set foot an inch beyond the doorstep, do you hear me?”"""										
"""“Yes, sir.”"""										
"""“Expedite the matter, and tell me when you’re done.”""    ""Dismissed, Mr. Alexander Finch gave a nod and exited the office."""										
"""By taking a few quick strides, I contrived to encounter him at the bottom of the brass-railed stairs leading down to the main floor of the store. Rather breathlessly I addressed him, “Excuse me, Mr. Finch ."""										
. .”										
"""“May I help you, miss?” Halting to face me, he seemed pleasant and"										
"obliging enough. A bit dandified, perhaps. He wore tinted eyeglasses indoors. And instead of the usual sober garb of a clerk, he had on a peacock-blue ascot with a horseshoe pin, a silver-grey waistcoat with white buttons, and very smart cuff-links; indeed, his was the male equivalent of the fashionable but inexpensive clothing that ornamented Miss Meshle. If he were a"""										
"""seducer, perhaps he would show some interest in me"""										
–										
"Nonsense. Any comparison to me was hardly fair to ""Lady Cecily, who was not giraffe-like in personage."""										
"""I told Alexander Finch, “Sir, I find myself quite bewildered by such a palatial establishment graced by such a variety of wares, and I wonder whether you might show me . . .” Then I let my voice sink to a murmur only he could hear. “Lady Theodora Alistair sent me to speak with you.”"" My heart quickened as I watched to see how he would react."										
"""But he barely reacted at all, showing only the faintest flicker of surprise, from which he recovered quickly, falling in with my charade.  “If you’ll just walk this way, miss, I’ll be pleased to assist you.”""    ""He led me back through the store, past a counter where an attractive female clerk stood behind absurdly disembodied carved wooden hands displaying gloves, past another where a spinsterish woman exhibited cast- iron hearth sets to husband and wife; past several more, until he reached one where a willowy young working girl stood. To her he said, “Disappear.”"""										
"""Although his tone was low and neutral, she fled wide-eyed without a smile or a word – in fear? But perhaps such was her usual manner with him. She was, after all, a doe-eyed young thing, and he was the master’s son."""										
"""Himself slipping behind the now-vacant counter, Mr. Alexander Finch told me, “Here we have the very latest fashions in ladies’ footwear.”"""										
"""It would have attracted attention, you see, appearing disreputable, had I simply stood and talked            with him. But we could converse over a counter-top, and to any onlooker it would seem that he was strictly attending to business, waiting upon me."""										
"""I wasted no time. “Lady Theodora is taking matters into her own hands,” I explained, or fictionalised, “to see what the fair sex, in an unofficial way, can accomplish in searching for the missing Lady Cecily.”"""										
"""“Quite so. Something for spring, you say?” Pulling open some of the many deep drawers beneath and behind the counter, he brought forth a fawn- coloured boot with a delicate heel, a pearl-grey one that buttoned up the front instead of the side, and a tan one with laces."""										
"""The boots were of excellent quality and quite lovely, but I only pretended to look at them as I told him, “No doubt you think it foolish, but Lady Theodora feels we must try. You see, the police have been of no help.”"""										
"""“I’d say not. All they do is watch me, and my father’s so vexed with me, he won’t let me out the door.”"""										
"""He said this just as imperturbably as he’d said anything else. So far I had gained no sense of him, none at all, whether for good or for ill."" “Do you live at home with your parents?” I asked for"										
lack of any better question.										
"""“No, I stay with the other clerks.”"""										
"""No doubt in a dormitory above the store. “Well, you’ve some respite from your father’s"""										
"""vexation, then. Why is he angry with you?”"""										
"""“Because I forget my place, as he calls it, treating people all much the same.” He gestured towards a bentwood chair placed on my side of the counter. “Would you care to have a seat, my lady?”"""										
"""“Oh, no!” I sat rather abruptly, because my knees weakened. “I am not –"										
"I don’t – such a title – ”"""										
"""“Well, the quality of your speech says you’re not what you appear to be, either.”"""										
"""While not titled by birth, certainly not one to be presented at court, I was a squire’s daughter, and as such, a member of the gentry, one who  does not work for money. And my accent, if not my clothing, betrayed my rank. Sitting with my mouth airing, I scolded myself internally: I must  be more careful. This was why I had decided the nocturnal Sister must be  a mute – because my distinctive voice might give me away."""										
"""At the same time I began to understand why Lady Cecily might have entered into correspondence with this young man. Beneath his bland exterior lay a great deal of intelligence and – and some other, less definable qualities."""										
"""Indeed, for a moment I felt quite uncomfortable as he leaned on his elbows studying me through his tinted spectacles, which made it difficult for me to see his eyes or read their expression."""										
"""Just as I started to turn away from his scrutiny, the young man almost smiled. For a moment there was a flicker of some realisation – knowledge, or triumph – in his smirk. He said, “I do believe we have met."""										
"""What, may I ask, is your name?”"""										
"""“Certainly you may ask,” I told him, controlling my tone as best I could."""										
"""A moment passed before he understood that I would not answer. Then he seemed to drop the subject entirely. “I personally feel that boot-laces are far superior to buttons,” he remarked, holding up the tan boot. “They obviate the tedium of a button-hook, and mould the leather more closely  to the limb of the wearer.” Which should not have been desirable or necessary, were the lower extremities not meant to be seen, after all, a glimpse now and then, as this young man knew quite well – though I felt a bit odd hearing him insinuate so. As he spoke, he yanked upon the laces  to demonstrate their function, for all the world like a maid pulling  upon stay-laces, giving the boot a wasp waist where an ankle should have been."""										
"""I barely looked. “Indeed.” My attention remained on his round, blank, bespectacled face. “And if I am a lady, then would you consider yourself a gentleman?”"""										
“Just my point. This country is mad for valuing people according to their titles.” He continued to										
"""strait-lace the tan boot. “Why should an idle so-called aristocrat be considered more of a gentleman than any thrifty, sober, industrious member of the working class?”"""										
"""As he spoke this outrageous nonsense, I sensed passion beneath his cool exterior."""										
"""Uncertain where it might lead, I asked cautiously, “You are in favour of democracy, then?” Shocking, if so, even to one who had been raised by a Suffragist."""										
"""But he replied, “I scorn all such labels.” Indeed he almost sneered, setting down the tan boot, now appearing strangled in its own laces. “I pigeon-hole"""										
"""no one, I’ll befriend anyone,” (he said rather viciously,) “and if someone needs help, I’ll help them, whether they’re a scullery-maid or – ”"""										
The way he broke off gave me my cue. “Lady Cecily needed help?”										
"""His hard voice lowered, if not exactly softening. “Flat tyre on her bicycle, that was all, when I was out running errands on mine, and I patched hers with my kit, and we got to talking.”"""										
“Alexander!” roared a male voice close at hand. The young man in question lifted the delicate fawn-										
"""coloured boot. “To place an order, miss, all you need do is post us a"										
"tracing of your right foot – ”"""										
"""Mr. Ebenezer Finch hove into view, ranting, “Alexander, I told you – oh.” He broke off rather ungraciously. “I see. You’re helping a customer.”"""										
"""How very odd, I thought, that while the father was so choleric, the son appeared so stoical. More than stoical. Nearly wooden."""										
"""After his father departed, without acknowledging the interruption in the least the young man told me, “Lady Cecily was a serious sort of girl."										
"She’d been reading Das Kapital, and we discussed the exploitation of the masses.”"""										
"""Das Kapital? I had heard whispers of the book – it was considered shocking, no, beyond shocking, Not Nice At All, simply deplorable. However, as with many such topics mentioned only in undertones – “life of ill repute,” for instance – I had not the faintest idea what it was, actually."""										
"""However, Mr. Alexander Finch did not seem to require my comprehension in order to keep talking. “Lady Cecily considered our meeting most fortuitous. She wanted me to show her the proletariat.”"""										
"""Proletariat? A government building, perhaps? “Not just domestics, clerks, and artisans, but the"""										
"""true toiling downtrodden factory-fodder masses,” Mr. Alexander went on. “Naturally, I obliged her. We corresponded, and over a period of time – ”"""										
“Oh!” I interrupted.										
"""“I beg your pardon, is something wrong?”"""										
“Not at all.” I had exclaimed because now I saw how Lady Cecily’s charcoal drawings had come to be										
"""created. “You took her to the dock district, and the""  ""workhouse, and St. Giles, and the fish market at Billingsgate.”"""										
"""“How did you know that?” I saw a hint of a frown on his brow that had until now remained as smooth as new cheese. “Yes, exactly so. She would go bicycling with her friends, arranging to meet me, and I would escort her to see how most people in this world- famous city live.”"""										
Marx. I remembered now. An appalling man named										
"""Karl Marx had written Das Kapital. “Lady Cecily was a Marxist?” I whispered, for this could not be spoken out loud."""										
"""“I have told you, I have no use for such labels.” The young man’s scorn of my intellectual capacity showed quite plainly."""										
"""“My apologies,” I said meekly, for my upbringing as the disgrace of the Holmes family had made me quite accustomed to being looked down upon. (Literally so, in this case, as I sat in the bentwood chair and Alexander Finch stood behind the counter.) “I am  sorry to trouble you with so many questions. Just let me ask you this: Why did Lady Cecily wish to see the, ah, proletariat?”"""										
"""“Why, for education she could not obtain elsewhere, of course. She asked endless questions. Why were there so many pawn-shops. Why did the  milkmaid lead a donkey behind her. What were ‘drippings’ and where did they come from. Why were children making bandboxes, and poor women sewing burlap sacks.”"""										
“But she must have wanted this knowledge for some reason. What were her plans?”										
"""His tone, although still quite calm, became rather less pleasant. “To make a whipping boy of me, by the look of things.”"""										
"Not at all the answer I had expected. “Whatever do you mean?” ""“Whatever could be plainer?” He mimicked my dismay. “She has gone off somewhere, while I take the blame.”"""										
"""Rather helplessly I suggested, “Perhaps she didn’t realise you would be blamed.”"""										
"""“Why the ladder, then?”"""										
"""I sat silent, knowing all too well why the ladder: so that Lady Cecily’s"										
"family, aware of her only as a girl who drew sugary pastels, would think she had gone off with a seductive beau, silly young thing."""										
"""Whereas in truth, a young lady who read Marx might be capable of anything."""										
"""I asked Mr. Alexander Finch, “But did she not confide in you at all? Have you any idea where she has gone ?”"""										
"""“I don’t know a thing about any of it,” the young man said, arranging the boots so that they formed a straight line marching across the counter-top, “but what I think is, she walked right out the front door and"""										
put that ladder there herself.” CHAPTER THE NINTH										
ON MY WAY BACK TO ST. PANCRAS STATION I										
"""stopped at a bookshop. “Das Kapital, by Karl Marx,” I told the portly gentleman behind the counter."""										
"""He did not move; indeed, he appeared to have, like various fairy-tale unfortunates, turned to stone, except for his mouth, which opened and closed several times."""										
"""“I assure you,” I told him, “that after I have had a brief look inside it, I fully intend to cover it in baize and use it as a doorstop.”""    ""His mouth settled into a disapproving line before he spoke. “In English translation, miss, or in the original German?”"""										
"""“In English, of course.” Did I look like a scholar? Did"""										
"""I sound like one? Oh, dear, I must be more careful to control my gentrified accent, with which Alexander Finch had twitted me."""										
"""I did not at all know what to think of Alexander Finch. I had been able to read very little in his face, but his manner was odd at times. Never quite improper, but subtly peculiar. Yet I felt sympathy for him, subject as he was to his father’s temper; I admired his stoicism, and I appreciated his willingness to speak frankly with me. His theory that  Lady Cecily had left by the front door and placed a misleading ladder at her own window appealed to me; it was the sort of thing I would have done."""										
"""All in all, however, leaving the bookshop with my heavy parcel, I felt that I had not learned much."""										
"""And after scanning portions of Das Kapital that evening in the privacy  of my lodging, I felt that – except for having learned what “proletariat” was, namely, the common people – other than that, I knew rather less than before. Lady Cecily, a convert to Marxism after reading this book? I had studied Hobbes, Darwin, even Winwood Reade’s Martyrdom"""										
"""of Man with interest, but Marx – I must admit that Marx put me to sleep."""										
"""Quite soundly. I awoke the next morning wondering what sort of intellect Lady Cecily might possess, to be able to appreciate such rarefied rubbish."""										
"""And what, considering some of his rather shocking statements, Alexander Finch had been reading."""										
"""And if Lady Cecily had indeed marched out the door on her own, what had she worn, and where had she gone, and for what purpose?"""										
"""But all such questions flew from my mind unresolved as I sat in my office sipping my morning tea and looking through the newspapers, for in the personal column of the Pall Mall Gazette I spied the following:"" 245255 33151545 3315 4445154144"										
12432445244423 335144155133										
21245215 45353424222345										
333545231544										
"""Snatching for paper and pencil, I scrawled the"""										
"""alphabet in lines of five letters, then set to work. 245255. Second line, fourth letter, I. Fifth line,"""										
"""second letter, V. Fifth line, fifth letter, Y."""										
IVY.										
It was for me!										
"""Feverishly I worked on. Fully deciphered, the message said, IVY MEET ME STEPS BRITISH MUSEUM FIVE TONIGHT MOTHER."""										
Oh.										
Oh!										
"""So quick, so sudden, just like that, to see my mother again? I felt as if my heart had stopped."""										
"""And just as quickly it started again, beating hard and quick like a regimental drum, as a thick porridge of conflicting emotions stirred through me. I loved Mum. I hated her. She had abandoned me. She had rescued me. She didn’t love me. But she had given me freedom, by slipping me a great deal of money and also by the way she had raised me. Her stubborn independence, her adamant championing of women’s rights –"""										
Wait a minute.										
IVY MEET ME STEPS BRITISH MUSEUM FIVE TONIGHT MOTHER.										
"The British Museum? That despised institution? Mum loathed the British Museum for its continual insults to female scholars. “Steps British Museum” seemed a most unlikely place for her to choose for a rendezvous. ""And in that moment, the moment doubt entered my mind, I discovered that, contrary emotions notwithstanding, I wanted to see my mother. Yearned to. I quite desperately tried to believe the message anyway, telling myself that Mum had simply chosen the British Museum because it was a  convenient"""										
"""meeting place, centrally located in a respectable area of the city."" ""But at the same time I could almost hear her remembered voice inside my head adjuring me, Enola, think."""										
I thought.										
"""And my thoughts provided no comfort. This message did not use our code  of flowers in any way. Mum would not have said “meet me” – she would have made some reference to either the scarlet pimpernel or the mistletoe,  both longtime symbols of"""										
"""a tryst. She would not have said “Mother.” Instead, she would have said"										
"“your chrysanthemum,” meaning Mum."" Inescapable conclusion: This message had not been placed in the newspaper by her."										
But I still wanted to believe it must have been Mum. Who else could have										
–										
"""Oh, no.""   I knew who."										
"""And thinking of him, my too-clever brother, I needed to say something quite naughty. “Oh, my stars and garters!”"""										
Such was my degree of perturbation that it was difficult to keep presence of mind. I managed to muster that valuable commodity just sufficiently to scan the rest of the personal advertisements in all of the newspapers. In case there might really be something from Mum.										
"""There was not, of course. Indeed, it was a bit too soon; previous missives had taken a week or more to arrive. While I had no idea how or where the Gypsies wintered, I pictured Mum somewhere far out in the countryside, requiring time to receive her publications by mail, decipher my message, check the train schedules, and post a reply."""										
"""And as she would be coming into London by rail, would she not have asked me to meet her at, or near, some railway station? Surely she would."" ""British Museum, humbug. Whoever had placed that advertisement had his  own considerations in mind, not Mum’s."""										
"Whoever? Humph. I knew well enough that it was Sherlock. ""Although it took me a few hours, and a headache,"""										
"""to hypothesise how this disturbing turn of events might have come about, then decide what to do."""										
Luckily Dr. Ragostin’s excellent secretary had kept Dr. John Watson’s										
address.										
"""Early in the afternoon, I took a cab to that worthy"" ""physician’s office, finding myself let out in front of a modest practice-and-residence on a side street of northwest London."""										
"""A page whom Joddy could have emulated for manners showed me into a small, slightly shabby waiting-room and told me that the doctor was currently out but should return soon, for his consulting-hours began at one. The casement clock in the corner read"""										
a quarter till that hour. I was glad to wait.										
"""As the clock chimed one, a stout old woman with a goiter and a uniformed commissionaire with a limp joined me in the waiting-room. However, I was let into the doctor’s consulting-room first."""										
"""Like his waiting-room, it was small and just a trifle thread-worn about the upholstery and draperies."""										
"""“Miss, um . . .” Standing up behind his desk to greet me, the kind-eyed doctor recognised me, but could not place me."""										
"""“Miss Meshle, from Dr. Ragostin’s office.” “Miss Meshle!” His smile lighted his otherwise"""										
"""commonplace face, making it positively charming."""										
“Do sit down.” He motioned me into the patient’s chair and seated himself behind his desk again. “And what may I thank for this unexpected pleasure?”										
So open and friendly was his manner that I believe I actually blushed. I would have adored this man for a father.										
"""Until that moment, although I had often thought how nice it would be to have a friend or – or family, I suppose, not eccentric and scattered but real family that spent evenings reading in the parlour – still, I hadn’t realised I would have liked to have a father. My own father had passed away when I was four years old, and until that moment I hadn’t particularly missed him."""										
But I did now.										
"""“I, um, am afraid, that is, I must not take up much of your time,” I told Dr. Watson, faltering a bit from surprise at my own feelings. “Dr. Ragostin has, ah, reviewed your case and, um, sent me to ask you a question.”"""										
“By all means. I am delighted to hear of his interest. Just yesterday I was saying to myself that I must stop by his office and inquire . . . but now here you are.										
Please do go on.”										
"""“Dr. Ragostin would like to know, has Mr. Sherlock Holmes been following certain ciphers in the personal columns of the Pall Mall Gazette?”"" ""“Holmes always reads the ‘agony columns’ in all of the major  newspapers,” Watson replied."""										
"""“Yes, but any ciphers in particular? Did you notice anything upon his desk, for instance, when you visited him?”"""										
"""“Oh, yes, but that had nothing to do with the newspaper. Ciphers, yes, but it was a dainty little booklet of them, handmade, with watercolour flowers painted upon it. Not at all the sort of thing one would expect to find Holmes working upon. More like a lady’s hobby. Holmes quite snapped at me when I tried to have a closer look at it.”"""										
"""It was as I had feared. Feeling a bit weak, I closed my eyes."" ""“Miss Meshle? I know you said you are not here to consult me as a physician, but – are you ill?”"""										
"""“Just a dreadful headache, Dr. Watson.”"""										
"""Quite a headache indeed. The “lady’s hobby” had to be my cipher book, created by Mum and given to me upon my fateful fourteenth birthday in order that its secret messages might tell me where her hoarded fortune  was hidden. It was, indeed, my most precious memento of my mother. But my"										
"first day in London, it had been stolen from me by a cutthroat while I"										
"was unconscious, and I had thought it lost and gone forever."""										
"""Now, however, I saw what must have happened: When Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard had gone"""										
"""to arrest Cutter, he had searched the boat’s cabin. He"""										
"""had found this flowery little booklet, incongruous enough in such a  place that he had showed it to his friend Sherlock Holmes. Or perhaps the great detective had been there for the search and had seen the item in question himself."""										
And had recognised his mother’s handwriting.										
"""This, then, was how my brothers knew of my financial well-being. After solving the ciphers, Sherlock must have made certain inquiries or investigations at our mutual childhood home, Ferndell Hall."""										
"""At the same time, he had very likely deduced a connection with ciphers he had seen in the personal columns of the Pall Mall Gazette – ciphers that mentioned “chrysanthemum” and “ivy.” Almost certainly he had solved them as well. He had been eavesdropping, as it were, on the communications between me and Mum."""										
And now he had placed his own advertisement to bait a trap for me. “Miss Meshle.” Dr Watson sounded concerned. “You do not look well at all.”										
After taking my pulse and inquiring what I had eaten										
"""for luncheon, the good doctor gave me a bromide and had me lie down on the cot in his examining-room while he consulted with his other patients. Perhaps an hour passed before he poked his head in and asked, “Any better?”"""										
"""Throwing off the knitted blanket with which he had covered my fully clad person, I sat up to speak to him. “Much better, thank you, Dr. Watson.” This was the truth. The hour of rest had given me time to remember my mother’s face, and her habitual dictum – “Enola, you will do quite well  on your own” – and thereby calm myself."""										
And reach a decision. And formulate a plan.										
"""For which I needed to be in position before five o’clock, and already it was past three."""										
"""Dr. Watson refused to accept a consulting-fee from me. Thanking him profusely, I departed, walking to the cab-stand at the corner."" ""“Baker Street,” I told the cabby."""										
"""Once inside the four-wheeler, I drew the blinds. Then, while swaying along through London traffic, I removed from my personage as much of Ivy Meshle as I could. Off came my cheap straw hat, which I necessarily sacrificed, stuffing it underneath the seat of the cab. Off came the fair-but-false fringe of curls over my forehead, which I put into a pocket, and my “chignon,” similarly stowed. Off came the green glass earbobs, “choker” necklace and other baubles. From my bosom, where as I have said I kept a variety of useful items, I pulled a scarf, which I tied over my now"""										
unadorned head. I closed my mantle to cover most of										
"""my dress. I did, however, leave in my cheeks and nostrils the devices that stretched them into a fuller shape."""										
"""Raising the blinds, I watched with interest, viewing my brother’s lodging for the first time, as the cab trotted me past 221 Baker Street: just another numbered doorway in a common wall of shops and residences, an ordinary enough place to house such an extraordinary person as Sherlock Holmes."""										
But I waited until we had passed the next corner before I knocked on the ceiling to signal the cabby to stop.										
"""Once afoot, I walked back towards number 221 on the opposite side of the street, hoping I would not have to stand in the cold for very long. Also, wondering how I could best linger without being noticed. In such freezing weather, there were fewer people about than usual, although newsboys"										
still cried out for a living: “ ’Orrible murder in Whitechapel; read all										
"about it!” And fishmongers pushed their barrows: “Fresh ’erring, live oysters, whelks!” And all swathed in a long waterproof, a poor woman tried to sell trifles from a basket: “Oranges, boot-laces, novelties!”"" ""I stopped to see what she had. Aside from aforementioned oranges that might better have been called “browns,” and boot-laces, she offered a quantity of pen-wipers, made from the usual scraps of fabric but not in the usual squares; these were cunningly shaped like flowers and butterflies. “Clever,” I remarked, fingering one. “Do you sew them yourself?”"""										
"""“That I do, ma’am, although me eyes ’ave gone nearly blind by the labour of it.”"""										
"""She had been working by candlelight, firelight, or perhaps even out at night under a street-lamp, poor thing, for want of better illumination."" ""Holding a blue cotton pen-wiper shaped like a little bird, I asked, “How many have you sold?”"""										
"""“Not what I’d like, ma’am.” Her chapped lips quivered; indeed we both stood shivering with cold. “On the posh streets, where folk wouldn’t miss a penny or two, the coppers drive me away, they do.”"""										
“So you live hereabouts?”										
"""“No, ma’am. In Southwark, ma’am, but nobody wants ’em there.”"""										
"""I should think not. Southwark, on the other side of the Thames, was  given over to disreputable theatres, gaming, bear-baiting, and the like."" ""And once the woman returned to Southwark, no one who lived on Baker Street was likely to encounter   her again."""										
"""I told her, “I’ll give you a guinea for the whole lot, basket and all. And I will trade you my mantle for your waterproof.”"""										
"""She gawked at me, but had the good sense not to"" ""ask questions. Off she went rejoicing, wearing my"""										
"""mantle, with a goodly sum of money in her fist, and off I went in her waterproof, carrying her basket and crying with a suitably Cockney accent, “Oranges,"""										
"""boot-laces, novelties!”"""										
"""A good ruse, and a necessary one, for I progressed up and down that block of Baker Street for a full three quarters of an hour (and actually sold two pen- wipers!) before I saw Sherlock Holmes emerge from his lodging."""										
"""Not in a gentleman’s dress, of course. On his way to capture me, or so  he thought, he had disguised himself just sufficiently so that I would  not notice or recognise him until it was too late. Therefore he was got  up as a common labourer with a leather belt around his coat, a flannel shirt, and a cloth cap from under which his hair fell over his forehead."" ""Striding off towards the British Museum, he passed me without a glance. Other than letting his forelock hang, he had not done anything to his face, and with a pang in my heart I saw that his hawk-like features did, indeed, look pale and harrowed, as his friend Watson had said."""										
"""Silent, suffering a queer inward pain, I watched him walk by."" I took a long breath and let it out again. Then I moved on."										
"""Pausing at a greengrocer’s shop, I put down my basket and with my foot nudged it into a crate that was holding up a display of apples. Then I bought a slice of onion."""										
"""Walking towards number 221, I concealed this in my handkerchief and held it near my eyes, which promptly began to water."""										
Very good.										
"""Already, at this cruel time of year, the streets lay in shadow. Doubtless my brother had chosen this hour in order to favour his scheme. Darkness would be falling when Sherlock reached the steps of the museum where –"""										
"""Oh, Mum, what if I am terribly wrong? What if you’re there waiting for me after all?"""										
"""The onion in my handkerchief proved unnecessary. At this thought, I"										
"started crying."" CHAPTER THE TENTH"										
"""AN OLDER WOMAN IN A SIMPLE, RESPECTABLE"""										
"""blouse and skirt answered my knock, looking startled but not appalled to find me weeping on the doorstep. “Is – Mr. Sherlock Holmes – in?” I inquired between"""										
"""sobs. I had forgotten to speak in an accent (“Mister ’Olmes”) befitting my appearance, but because of my tears perhaps she did not notice."" ""“Bless you, dear, he just went out.” Wrapping a shawl around herself to speak with me, silver-haired Mrs. Hudson showed herself to be a kindly soul. I knew the landlady, of course, from Dr. Watson’s writings, but remembered not to call her by name."""										
"""I lamented, “But – but I – must see him this evening.”"" ""“I don’t know when he’ll be back, miss.”"""										
“I – don’t care. I am in – such trouble. I’ll wait.”										
"""“But it might be hours.” Shivering despite her shawl, she retreated a  few steps into the house, preparing to shut the door. “Why don’t you come back later?”"""										
"""“I’ll wait.” Whimpering, I plopped myself down on the icy doorstep."" ""“Bless you, dear, you can’t wait there. You’ll freeze. Come in, come in.”"""										
"""As I had hoped, she led me upstairs and showed me into my brother’s sitting-room."""										
"""“Goodness,” I murmured, forgetting myself in my surprise at the mess; I had never ventured into a bachelor’s lodgings before. I knew, of course, from Dr. Watson’s writings, that there would be tobacco (in the toe of a Persian slipper, no less!) and a violin (instrument and bow laid carelessly across a chair), letters skewered by a jackknife to the mantelpiece, bullet-holes in the walls, and so forth. But I found myself ill prepared for what there was not. No flowers. No lace pillows. No ruffled skirts on the chairs."""										
"""To be a man, apparently, was to lack the ability to be a woman."" ""Mrs. Hudson tsked over the books and papers strewn everywhere. “Mr. Holmes is tidy in his dress and in his personal habits if not in his housekeeping,” she excused him. “He’s a real gentleman. Whatever your"										
"difficulty may be, he’ll do his best to help you with it, miss, and never mind whether you can pay him or not.”"""										
"""Her words brought fresh tears to my eyes, for despite his trickery, I wanted to believe all goodness of my brother."""										
"""“Shall I take your wrap, miss?” She started to lift it from my shoulders."""										
"""“No!” I clutched the waterproof around me, for it concealed Ivy Meshle’s too-fashionable dress. “No,” I amended, “thank you. I’m cold.”"""										
"""“Well, miss, just have a seat, then.” The sweet old"" soul cleared newspapers off an armchair near the"										
hearth for me. “I’ll bring you some tea.” She bustled out.										
"""No sooner had she closed the door behind me than I sprang up, crossing as noiselessly as I could to my brother’s desk, impatiently blinking tears from my eyes. Through the blur I scanned a pile of papers, failing to find what I was looking for as I tossed them aside."""										
On the now-cleared desk top I saw only the usual lamp and writing implements.										
"""The object of my search could have been anywhere in the room, of course, but I sensed that my brother, although he might toss his violin onto a chair, would take great care of an important clue. I tried his desk drawer."""										
Locked.										
"""Reaching beneath my waterproof to draw my brooch, that is to say, my"										
"dagger, I inserted its stiletto- thin blade into the keyhole and probed the"""										
mechanism therein.										
I must admit I did not entirely lack experience in this art. Any enterprising child raised amongst wellsecured larders and sugar-bins learns to pick locks.										
"""With a click, this one yielded to me. Returning my dagger to its concealment as brooch, I pulled open the desk drawer."""										
"""I expected to see pen nibs, blotting paper, wooden ruler, things of that sort."""										
Nothing of the kind met my eye.										
"""Instead, the drawer framed a sort of vignette of my brother’s peculiar life. I glimpsed a revolver, a box of cartridges, a small bottle of some clear liquid lying on its side, a needle and syringe (such as a doctor might use) in an open velvet-lined case, and a dainty, framed photograph of a beautiful woman – an object of much curiosity to me when I had time to think about it."""										
But I saw all these things only in memory; at the    moment my attention was all for what lay atop the array.										
"""With trembling fingers I grasped it: the precious, hand-painted, hand- lettered booklet of ciphers my mother had created for me. I wept anew, seeing it again. But there was no time for me to kiss it or hug it or anything of that sort. Already I heard Mrs. Hudson’s tread upon the stairs. Clawing my waterproof aside, I thrust the cipher booklet deep into my bosom. Closing the desk drawer, I took three soft, swift strides back to my armchair and had just seated myself with waterproof wrapped around me when Mrs. Hudson entered, carrying a tray."""										
"""“Do have some tea, miss.” She poured and served me that life-sustaining beverage, and then to my dismay, poured herself a “cuppa” and sat down to"""										
keep me company.										
"""“Are you still cold, dear? Why don’t you just slip that wrap back to your shoulders so you can enjoy your tea.”"""										
"""I shook my head, having no difficulty acting like an incoherent, nearly hysterical damsel in distress (for I was a bit distraught), but thinking, This will not do. I had perhaps overplayed my role; what if the sympathetic Mrs. Hudson planned to cosset me until my brother returned?"" “Have a bit of walnut cake?” She offered a plate."										
"""Shaking my head again, I wavered, “N-no, thank you. I, um, Mrs. . . .” Just in time I stopped myself."""										
"""“Hudson, dear.”"""										
"""“Mrs. Hudson, I wonder whether . . .” One cannot feign a blush, but no need; I flushed profusely, for I really am a shy person. “. . . Nature calls,” I mumbled. “Might there be . . .”"""										
"""“Oh, you poor thing, of course.” Sweet soul, she jumped up. “Can you wait for just a few more moments? I must go, ah, see to it.”"""										
"""The water closet, I knew, would be located at the farthest end of the ground floor, by the back door, for such indoor “conveniences” let in the stench of the sewer; one does not want them near the kitchen or the parlour. And Mrs. Hudson needed to inspect its condition, perfuming it  and providing it with an ewer of hot water and a fresh towel, before she escorted me there."""										
"""The moment the sound of her footsteps faded down the stairs, I got to my feet, tiptoed to the door of my brother’s lodgings, and silently opened it. After listening, hearing nothing to alarm me, I slipped out, leaving the door ajar behind me so as not to make an unnecessary sound by closing it. Trotting softly down the stairs, I made my escape out of the front of the house without interference, for undoubtedly Mrs."""										
"""Hudson was still busy trying to oblige my very embarrassing request."										
"Probably she heard the heavy front door close behind me. But I ran, and it was no great distance to the corner cab-stand."""										
"""The cabby looked askance at such an ill-clad fare, but I tossed him a sovereign and hopped into his four- wheeler. “The British Museum!”""    ""Any astonishment or resistance on his part overcome by the gold coin in his hand, he promptly obeyed."""										
"""I pulled the hood of my waterproof forward as far as I could to conceal my face. Impatiently I wiped away my tears with my hands. (Somewhere I  had lost my handkerchief, onion and all.) No more snivelling, I commanded myself; I was doing something risky, indeed foolish, and I needed to have my wits about me."""										
"The cab pulled up at the steps of the British Museum. ""Rather than getting out, I peered from the shadows"""										
"""of the cab. I had no problem spying my brother Sherlock lounging against one of that venerable institution’s Grecian Revival columns, puffing a cigarette, the picture of a worthless idler. Very likely some constable would soon collar him and tell him to move on. As for Mum, there was no sign of her. If by any chance the message had come from her – if it had been intercepted by Sherlock, rather than originating from him – if Mum had appeared, then obviously my brother would not be loitering where he was."""										
"""With a sigh of relief, I smiled. I had been right all along. Mum was safe in the country somewhere, and Sherlock was trying to outsmart his disgraceful younger sister. When he went home, he would find out who was smart."""										
"""The cab-driver had appeared at the door. “Miss?” “Drive on,” I told him."""										
All that evening by the warmth of my humble hearth-										
"""fire I cherished my reclaimed booklet of ciphers in my hands. Such  bliss, to see again that familiar first page bordered with Mum’s daintily hand-painted gold and russet chrysanthemums around her handwritten ALO  NEK OOL NIY MSM UME HTN ASY RHC. And"""										
"""something new: On the page Sherlock had pencilled the solution, ENOLA LOOK IN MY CHRYSANTHEMUMS."""										
"""On the next page, decorated with windflowers, he had printed SEE WITHIN MY ANEMONES ENOLA."""										
"""And so on – he had solved the cipher illustrated by the ivy on the picket fence (ENOLA LOOK IN MY BED KNOBS); indeed, he had deciphered all the messages, including some I hadn’t been able to. For"""										
a page decorated with pansies: HEARTS EASE BE YOURS ENOLA SEE IN MY MIRROR. With a pang I										
"""wondered which mirror, and what my brother had found behind the mirror’s backing: perhaps not just a sum of money? Perhaps a note from Mum, expressing regret, or farewell, or concern, even –"""										
"""I stopped myself far short of the word love. Mum had more important things to do. She was a woman of character, intellect, and principle. A Suffragist, tireless in her devotion to matters concerning the rights of the fair sex. A free-thinker. And an artist. A very good artist, as evidenced by the lovingly – or to"""										
"""choose another word, the exquisitely rendered flowers adorning the booklet in my hands."""										
"""While I adored Mum’s handiwork, I found myself now turning my attention to my brother’s notations. He had pencilled them so lightly that I could easily have erased them, so that my cipher book would be once again the way Mum had given it to me. But rather to my surprise, I found that I wanted to keep Sherlock’s intrusions. I wanted to possess something of my"""										
"""brother, if only his small, precise lettering beneath my"" mother’s artistic flourishes."										
"""Handwriting tells a great deal about a person in my opinion, both that"										
"which is plain to be seen and that which may be hidden. I had been thinking of my brother Sherlock as the great detective, incisive and commanding, but his handwriting was smaller than my mother’s. He did not think of himself as so very big."""										
"""He might indeed be a bit shy in his way, as I was."""										
"""Although severely logical. My mother’s fanciful handwriting could have been put down to artistic temperament, but just the same, I thought, it showed her aspirations, her idealism, her dreams. But in my brother’s printing: no dreams. His was the bleak realism of the scientist."" ""Although, I cautioned myself, under different circumstances – perhaps a letter to a friend, written instead of printed, would show more heart."										
"People can have different handwritings. Look at Lady Cecily."""										
Perhaps not the best example. Her handwritings										
"""were too different. Her perfectly modest, correct, stylish notes and letters on the one hand, but then her big, childish, backwards scrawl on the other –"""										
Hand.										
"""And suddenly, while I lounged half-drowsing before my fire, with nary a thought of accomplishing anything or finding anyone, up flashed a memory of Lady Cecily’s desk. As if my mind had slipped a slide into a magic lantern, projecting an image, I saw the lady’s lovely jade writing implements. Placed to the left."""										
"""And I quite clearly remembered seeing Lily, the too- faithful maid, then shift ink-pot, pen, et cetera, over to the right."""										
"""A shock of insight jolted me wide-awake. I sat bolt upright, staring."" ""At my own dressing-table, its very modest hairbrush, comb, jar of hand- cream, and so forth positioned upon the right side, of course, because I am - right-handed."""										
"But how had Lady Cecily’s silver-embossed dresser set been placed? ""“Oh, my stars,” I whispered."""										
CHAPTER THE ELEVENTH										
"""“HOT WATER, MISS MESHLE!”"""										
"""Thus startled out of a few hours of sleep by my landlady’s too-cheery bellow, I groaned aloud: My triumphant feelings in regard to my brother Sherlock had vanished overnight, replaced by terror of possible consequences."""										
"""“Miss Meshle, are you awake?” Confound the deaf old woman, she had not, of course, heard my less- than-civil response."""										
"""I felt disinclined to get up and go to work. And one would think I could have lain abed, for the terms of Miss Meshle’s employment with Dr."										
"Ragostin were exceedingly lenient – yet I could not sleep through the morning in my own lodging without exciting the curiosity of my landlady."" “Miss Meshle!” Mrs. Tupper rapped on the door. “Ye gods!” I muttered naughtily to myself before I"										
"""called aloud, “I’m awake!” “Eh? Are you up?”"""										
“Yes! Thank you! Mrs. Tupper!”										
"""Of course it would be blood pudding that morning for breakfast. I loathe blood pudding. On that and other accounts, Miss Meshle reported to work  in an ungracious frame of mind."""										
"""Yesterday (perhaps fortunately) there had been no time for me to think about my brother Sherlock, but now I realised the danger he presented, as he knew so much more than he should."""										
"""As evidenced in IVY MEET ME STEPS BRITISH MUSEUM, he knew my assumed name."""										
"""He knew, Doctor Watson had said, that I had money."""										
"""He knew of my enciphered communications with Mum, and had decrypted them."""										
"""And worst of all, at any moment he might learn much more from his best friend, the aforementioned Dr. Watson. Suppose my brother relented of his"										
rudeness to Watson and confided in him? And suppose that Watson then										
"confessed to Holmes concerning his visit to Dr. Ragostin? In the space of one simple conversation, Sherlock Holmes could have his attention quite thoroughly focused upon Ivy Meshle."""										
"""“Curses!” I muttered as I entered my office. “Curses, bosh, and humbug. Suppose crows turn white.” Sitting down by the hearth, I pushed fear out of my mind if not quite out of my shivering body. Sipping tea, I read the morning newspapers, replete with all the usual shocks and horrors. An anti-vaccination"""										
"mob in the East End had threatened the district nurse. Several female charity workers had been arrested in Holywell Street for giving out “pornographic” materials about “preventive checks” to childbirth. A gas ""explosion had violated a home in Knightsbridge,"""										
killing three servants and causing great distress to the family. It was rumoured that dock-workers were holding clandestine meetings of a subversive nature. Agriculture continued to languish due to cheap imported corn from America. Et cetera.										
But there was still no word from Mum. Confound everything.										
"""It was cold, I told myself, that made me shiver. In the time it had  taken me to go through the newspapers, the fire had dwindled  considerably. I bundled all of them onto the grate, and in that temporary blaze of warmth – and triumph, mind over matter – I marched to my desk."										
"Brother Sherlock could go – go to – go to the Phrenologist, and there was nothing I could do about Mum, but if I wished to call myself a perditorian, I had better get to work."""										
"""Seizing upon my sheaf of foolscap, rapidly I pencilled several small likenesses of Lady Cecily’s lovely head. On one of them I sketched an elaborately trimmed wide-brimmed hat; upon another a flat “Gypsy” bonnet, on another a straw boater, on another a tiny hat supporting a spray of feathers as was the latest fashion, and on another a plain shawl. The  fire died down again, and the room grew colder and colder; I shivered, my fingers stiffening so that they held the pencil with difficulty, but I kept drawing. I depicted Lady Cecily with her hair in a bun and no hat at all, then with a rag of cloth wrapped around her head, and then in a maid’s cap, with a comb that stood up at the back of her head like a wren’s tail,"""										
"""with a snood, and finally in a veil. Finished to my satisfaction, I reached for the bell-pull and rang."""										
"""“Joddy,” I requested when that eager boy appeared, “would you replenish the fire, please?”"""										
"""He sprang to do so. Taking a seat in the armchair, stretching my hands towards the welcome flames, I left my sketches on the desk where he would see them as he returned from refilling the coal scuttle.""  ""Surreptitiously I watched him from the corner of my eye. He glanced at the drawings, and then he jerked to a halt, staring, and after that it  did not matter that I turned my head to watch him with interest, for his whole attention had fixed on the sketches."""										
"I got up to stand beside him. “Do you still recognise her?” I asked. ""Quite forgetting his manners, he nodded."""										
"""I let his lapse pass to ask, “When did you see her?” “I don’t rightly know, Miss Meshle.”"""										
“Last year?”										
“No! This past week or two.”										
“On a street corner. With a basket.” “Yes.” “And what was she wearing?”										
"He pointed at the picture of a girl with a rag wound around her head. ""“Ah,” I murmured, so surprised that I forgot any"""										
"""further questions. Indeed, I felt rather weak."""										
"""What one wears on one’s head, you see, indicates one’s station in society as surely as if one wore a placard around one’s neck."""										
"""And in this case, Lady Cecily’s placard would have said “desperately"										
"poor.”"""										
"""So much for my theory that, like me, she was attempting to minister to London’s destitute."""										
"""Instead, it would seem that she had joined the ranks of those who live in poverty."""										
"""Several hours later, in a paisley dolman over an"""										
"""expensive but restrained visiting-dress of Prussian blue merino, “Mrs. Ragostin” once more approached the stately residence of Sir Eustace Alistair, Baronet."""										
"""But rather than going immediately to the door, I stood on the pavement, studying the baronet’s abode. While mansions in the country tend to spread horizontally, those in crowded London are necessarily built on a vertical plan, with the kitchen in the basement, the dining-room above (served by a dumb- waiter), the drawing-room above that (away from the noise and dirt of the street), bedchambers on the next floor, and then the children’s nursery and schoolroom on the next, and so on up to the servants’ quarters and the attic."""										
"""Lady Cecily’s bedchamber, I knew from my previous visit, was located on the children’s level, just below the servants’ quarters."""										
"""Studying the distance from that floor to the ground, I shook my head. Then, remembering my ladylike charade in time to restrain my usual longlegged"""										
"""stride, I minced around the side of the house to see whether the situation somehow looked better from the back."""										
"""It did not, of course, and while I peered at Lady Cecily’s windows, several astonished servants paused in their outdoor tasks to peer at me."" “You!” Imperiously I beckoned to a scullion-boy struggling with slop buckets. “Come here.”"										
"""He obeyed me instantly, of course, even though he had not a notion who I was, for I had assumed the manner as well as the clothing of the ruling class."""										
"""When he stood before me I asked more quietly, “The ladder by which Lady Cecily took her leave – where is it kept?” For the ladder must necessarily be on the premises. No one could carry such a thing through London at night without being noticed."""										
"""Rendered speechless by such a frank question on such a forbidden subject, the lad merely gestured towards the carriage house, which was quite large enough to have provided lodging for several families less blessed with riches than the baronet’s."""										
"""In the carriage yard stood a handsome barouche which three grooms were polishing. Or had been, until"""										
my advent had shocked them motionless.										
"""I sailed towards them. “Let me see this ladder,” I commanded."""										
"""One of them, presumably he with the most presence of mind, led me into the carriage house and pointed upward to where the ladder resided upon the rafters."""										
A very solid wooden ladder. In four sections.										
"""Any one of which would have been quite heavy for me to lift, and next to impossible for me to get down from its storage place without help."""										
And all four of which needed to be fastened										
"together and raised all at once to reach Lady Cecily’s window. ""“Thank you,” I said, and walked away as I had walked in, without explanation. With my thoughts in the sort of yarn-basket snarl I was coming to find customary."""										
"""After pausing, breathing in a well-disciplined manner, and invoking the memory of my mother’s face in order to steady myself, I approached the front door and knocked. Be timid, I reminded myself as the scowling butler faced me. Dr. Ragostin’s child bride, homely, bashful, and terribly naïve."""										
It was quite easy at that point for me to feel myself naïve.										
This time Lady Theodora awaited me at the top of the										
"""grand staircase, receiving me formally in the drawing- room, making it all the more difficult for me to communicate to her the most peculiar and irregular thoughts upon my mind. As did her dress of three fabrics: black taffeta bodice and train over a violet velvet skirt draped to show a finely pleated underskirt of grey silk. This costume, and her heavy necklace of glinting black gems, offset the pallor of her lovely face."" ""Elaborate as her gown was, yet because of its colours I felt as if already she were in mourning, as if her daughter Lady Cecily had passed away some time ago."""										
"""With her head erect and a cold look on her white face Lady Theodora stood to greet me, but I noticed that in the few days since I had seen her last, she had grown perceptibly thinner."""										
"""Crossing the room to her, instead of any of the usual polite preliminaries I blurted, “You must not give up hope, my lady!”"""										
"""For a moment she stiffened, but then her dignity crumbled like ice on a stream when the spring floods break it away. “Oh, Mrs. Ragostin!” Sagging, she reached for my hands, and we sat facing one another on a settee, nearly knee to knee. “Oh, my dear Mrs. Ragostin, I knowI must continue to hope for the best, but how can I, when there has been no news at all of"""										
my daughter?” She leaned towards me even more										
"""anxiously, trembling. “Has Dr. Ragostin found any trace, any sign, any clue of my poor, lost Cecily?”"""										
"""I answered cautiously. “There are some indications, perhaps.”"""										
"""“Oh!” One hand flew to her jewelled throat as she gasped for breath; for the sake of her dress she wore a “compressed waist” today. That is to  say, she was tightly laced, and her wretched corset made this  conversation most difficult, lest she fall down in a faint."""										
"""“Dr. Ragostin considered that once again I should be the one to interview you,” I murmured, “rather than himself, for the matter is delicate.”"""										
"""“Yes, of course. I am all in a flutter – that is, I had begun to fear – ”"""										
"""“I assure you, Dr. Ragostin has looked into the case most assiduously.”"""										
“Of course.”										
“He has requested me to ask you something.” “Anything!” Once more she clasped both my hands.										
"""I took a deep breath – which I was able to do, for I wore a corset only to hold my hip regulators and bust enhancer in place."""										
"""I asked, “Was Lady Cecily left-handed?”"""										
"""A simple enough question, one would think. But not when addressed to a member of the aristocracy."""										
"""“Certainly not!” Lady Theodora snatched herself away from my touch."										
"“What a – I never – a baronet’s daughter, left-handed?”"""										
"""Having surmised it might be like this, I had prepared myself. Reacting not at all to Lady"""										
"""Theodora’s bristling shock, her outrage, I murmured in"""										
"""soothing tones, “Of course not now, my lady.” A lie, for I believed the girl indulged her left hand in the privacy of her rooms. “But when Lady Cecily was quite small"""										
"""– one can hardly expect an infant to be aware of the proprieties, can one? At that time did she exhibit any tendency towards left-handedness?”"" ""Lady Theodora’s glare slid away from my meek but direct gaze. Looking at the velvety, flowered carpet, she muttered, “Perhaps her nurse might have mentioned something of the sort.”"""										
“Did her governess ever comment on it?”										
"""“Why, I – it is difficult to recall – if Lady Cecily was ever at all left-handed, why, the inclination was trained out of her, of course.”"""										
"""This was an admission of such magnitude that it sent shivers up my"										
"spine, and not for any reason Lady Theodora could have understood.  Indeed, I doubt I myself would have taken such a viewpoint if it were"" ""not for the extraordinary freedom of my own upbringing. But having been raised by a mother who believed in letting growing things alone, I was imagining how it must have been for Lady Cecily: Her baby fingers had  been smacked when she tried to use the “wrong” hand, toys taken away from her left"""										
"""hand and placed in her right, and oh, the scoldings."""										
"""Her left hand might have been tied behind her when it was time for her  to learn to print her letters. All through her schooling, her knuckles must have often been rapped. Or her left palm might have been beaten with a strap."""										
"""And along with these restrictive torments, she had undergone all the usual rigours of learning to be an ornament to upper-class society. She had walked with a book on her head for perfect posture. She had learned to embroider – with her right hand – and be “well versed in all handicrafts” – with her right hand – and draw blurry little candy- coloured pastels."""										
"""But could it be that her left hand wrote large, dark thoughts in her journals? And her left hand created strong, stark charcoal drawings?""     ""My mother had mentioned to me – it seemed so long ago, those wild and free childhood days at Ferndell Hall, but really it was less than a year ago – we had both read a new “shilling shocker,” The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, which reminded Mum of a study of the human mind recently begun in Germany, where “alienists” attempted to better understand insane people by means of concepts such as “idée fixe,” “dual personality” and the like. She had demonstrated “dual personality” by folding a photographic portrait in half lengthwise, directly in the  centre of the subject’s face, then holding each half against a mirror so that it formed a new face subtly yet startlingly unlike the original."" Could it be that Lady Cecily was a dual personality? Could it be that the Lady Cecily who used her left hand was an entirely different person than she who used her right?"										
CHAPTER THE TWELFTH										
I PASSED THE REMAINDER OF THE DAY IN A										
dismal frame of mind.										
How could I have been so stupid? Somehow I had started off by thinking that Lady Cecily could and would do the same things I might do. Such as: take pity upon London’s poor.										
Not a valid assumption. Or run away.										
"""Not a valid assumption, either. Or lift a large, heavy ladder. Nonsense."""										
"""The ladder – my word, I was a fool! The ladder was the first thing I should have inspected, and also I should have thought far sooner of the garments I had seen in Lady Cecily’s wardrobe, petite dresses that had been worn by a girl much daintier than I. How ridiculous ever to have believed Lady Cecily could have put that ladder to the window herself. I doubted that I could have done it, no matter how badly I wanted to."" ""Also, I had no basis for thinking Lady Cecily wanted to."""										
I had no reason to assume any of her ideas or inclinations were the least bit like mine.										
I had been blind.										
"""And I called myself a perditorian? I needed to do far better. I needed to take my wayward mind in hand, so to speak. Apply stern logic. Reason this matter through."""										
"""Accordingly, as soon as I had reached the privacy of my lodgings that evening, I sat myself down with a portable desk in my lap and a candle pulled close on either side to do just that. On paper."""										
"""Very well. Regarding Lady Cecily’s disappearance, what were the"										
"possibilities? I could think of only three:"" She eloped She ran away"										
She was kidnapped										
"In favour of elopement I wrote down: Appearance of same: the ladder at the window Secret correspondence with Alexander Finch ""Secret meetings, same"""										
Against:										
"""No mention in journals of consuming passion, for Alexander Finch or otherwise Use of grey sealing-wax only"""										
Bed slept in – why?										
No clothing missing from her wardrobe Lady not found with suspect Alexander Finch most unlikely object of lady’s affection										
I hesitated over that last as being subjective rather										
"""than strictly logical, but eventually let it stand so that I could move on."""										
She ran away: In favour of:										
"""She felt strongly about social and reform issues, reference her journals"""										
"""She maintained a double personality, charcoal versus pastel"""										
She broke her pastels. Inference: she no longer wished to be that person Against:										
Who helped her? She could not have put the ladder to the windowherself Why use a ladder? She could have walked out the door										
Why was her bed slept in? What did she wear? Hmm.										
"""Still not feeling much wiser, I attempted the same reasoning process with the third possibility:"""										
She was kidnapped. In favour of: Ladder to window. Needed because no access otherwise										
Bed slept in. Her slumber was interrupted No dresses missing. She was taken in her nightclothes										
Imagining Lady Cecily being snatched from her bed										
"""by some villain at midnight, I actually shuddered. How perfectly dreadful. And, the more I thought about it, possible; indeed, more in keeping with the facts than either of the other hypotheses. But again, there were objections:"""										
Against:										
Why did she not scream? Or why did no one hear her? Howcould she have been taken down the ladder?										
"""Why was she chosen as a victim, and by whom?"" Why has there been no ransom demand?"										
"""Regarding the first objection, it could be explained"""										
"""away by saying that the kidnapper, or kidnappers, had rendered the lady unconscious before she could"""										
"""scream, perhaps by the use of chloroform. And"""										
"""regarding the ransom and the choice of victim, it was possible – just possible – that Lady Cecily had been taken for another, nefarious purpose on which I preferred not to dwell; indeed, I only dimly understood this practice called “white slavery.” The idea seemed terribly far-fetched."" ""And best dismissed, for how, howcould the unconscious lady have been carried down such a tall ladder? I had heard that firemen could sling persons over one shoulder and manage a short descent that way, but for even the strongest man to attempt this from the fourth floor – how very risky. Foolhardy."""										
"""Indeed, stupid. Why had he not simply taken her down the stairs instead?"""										
"""But the evidence showed plainly that this had not been done. The ground-"										
"floor doors had remained barred, and the window locks had not been disturbed."""										
Perhaps he had lowered her from her bedchamber window with a rope and sling?										
With the ladder in the way? The other window?										
"""Hardly, as it was placed directly over the railedoff cellar-way area and a water butt."""										
"""Regarding the back window, then, there would have to be at least two kidnappers, one of whom would have to descend and move the ladder away from the window while the other one lowered the unconscious lady, then replace it so that the other could come down. And then they would have to carry her inert form away."""										
"""Oh, how absurd. “They”? Who were “they”? And surely such elaborate goings-on would have been noticed by the constable who patrolled every few minutes in that well-to-do neighborhood."""										
"""So much for the stern application of logic; it led one towards the most preposterous conclusions. Of the three possibilities – Lady Cecily eloped, Lady Cecily ran away, Lady Cecily was kidnapped – not one seemed any less ridiculous than the others."""										
"""Nothing made sense. I was a fool, not a perditorian. Throwing my papers on the fire, I lunged to my feet,"""										
"""lifted my mattress, and pulled out my habit. Fear of being garroted again now felt preferable to feeling so inept."""										
"""That night, after Mrs. Tupper had retired to her chamber, the black- clad, heavily veiled Sister slipped out to see what she could do for London’s poor."""										
The famous “pea-soup” fog of London was so thick										
"""this night that my own lantern seemed to float like a ghost at the end  of my arm, lost in nearly palpable murk. On nights like this, or even in daytime when the air turned to yellow-brown smut-broth, cabdrivers needed to lead their horses on foot, and watermen sometimes stepped off the  docks along the Thames"""										
and were drowned.										
"""While ordinary pedestrians, even more so than usual, fell victim to foul play. Right now a cutthroat could be standing within six feet of me and I would not see him. Or a garroter –"""										
"""The thought made me shiver as the dank cold did not, shudder with memory of that fearsome force seizing me from behind, squeezing, strangling – then only blackness, until the blurred memory of some horrid man lifting my veil before I fled. Altogether dreadful, that night, the blackest of memories, as evil as the – the foul device itself, absurdly simple, a stick of malacca wood and a stay-lacing, of all things, still clinging on to me afterward –"""										
"""Mentally I attempted to push the image away. This was no time to dwell  on such a terror, not with the all- but-tangible shadows of London night all around me. Hearkening constantly for any hint of danger, I walked on, not searching for unfortunates tonight, but instead making for a destination; I could stand my own apprehension only just so long. But at the same time I told myself that many more Londoners died of sheer breathing than ever died of crime. It could not possibly be healthful to inhale air that made one’s eyes and nostrils run black. I could bear it;  I had been raised in the clean air of the country. But what of those who had been born to breathe soot, to live and die on these grimy streets?"										
"London’s poor, I had noted, grew stunted and died soon."" One could hardly begrudge them their gin."										
"""Huddling together to survive the nights, even the poorest folk could often lay hands on a bottle of gin, which they passed around in order to make their cold and wretched lot more bearable."""										
"""By day they distrusted strangers, but by night the drink loosened their"										
"tongues. This fact, I believe, explains the timing of my strange encounter."""										
"""Well laden with my usual supplies, I hurried towards the workhouse, where the poorest of the poor, destitute old women called “dosses” or “crawlers,” spent their days and nights on the stone steps. By longtime custom, they were allowed this small mercy, instead of being knocked about by the police as was the lot of ordinary beggars."""										
"""Poor old things, they would be burning street sweepings if indeed they had any sort of fire at all –"""										
"""Rounding the corner of the workhouse, I halted a moment, astonished. Instead of the expected shadows, I saw upon the workhouse steps a metal washtub in which a considerable blaze merrily burned. There would be no need for me to light one of my tin- and-paraffin devices tonight.""    ""And instead of seeing shivering old women huddled together beneath the blankets I had given them, I saw them gathered around the fire, their gaunt faces grinning."""										
"""And with them, a man."""										
"""An old man as hunched and crooked as they were, his long grey hair and beard hanging down none too clean, and his shabby clothing even dirtier. Poor as poor can be. Yet somewhere he had got fuel for such a handsome fire, and the unlikely receptacle in which to carry it, and, I saw, a bottle of gin. And for some reason he had chosen to bring these things here."""										
"""Close beside him sat the most pitiful of the dosses, her half-naked body and her ringworm-nfested head, along with the rest of her threadbare personage, covered by the waterproof Ivy Meshle had given her two days before."""										
The waterproof that had previously belonged to a woman selling pen-wipers from a basket.										
"""“Sister!” she called as she saw me approach, her voice enlivened yet slurred by alcohol. “Sister, ’ave a toot o’ gin!”"""										
"""It was not necessary for me to reply, as the blackveiled Sister never spoke. Nor was it necessary for me to reject the hospitality with so much as a gesture; the dosses were accustomed to my ways. Silently I began handing out bread, et cetera, which the poor women grasped eagerly  enough, but not as desperately as they might have under their usual circumstances."""										
"""“. . . widowed. I did sewin’ till me eyes gave out,” the woman in the waterproof was gabbling to the old man, who had evidently asked her to tell him her story. As I was unable, due to my “muteness,” to make any such request, I listened with greatest curiosity while pretending not to. “Then I tried peddlin’ flowers in front of the theatre, you know, but  when it rained, the toffs wouldn’t stop to buy bookays for their ladies.  I stood in the rain anyway and took to coughin’, one jolly mess led to another, I got turned out of me room, and me very first night in a common lodging-house, some ’eartless devil stole me little bit o’ money and all me clothes. Me boots, me dress and apron, me – well, everything except  the shift I slept in was gone, and I cried to this one and that one to no avail. So it’s cold an ’ungry on the streets I am, for ’ow can I find  work witout any decent covering for meself? No,” in answer to the man’s offer of another swig of gin, “I’ll ’ave no more o’ that or it’s falling over I’ll be, even more so than customary.”"""										
"""Indeed, I had a few times seen the old women fall when they tried to walk, such was the extremity of their misery."""										
"""The greybeard said, “God forbid such ill fortune should ever beset me little Ivy.”"""										
Ivy?										
"""Only the fact that I was already pretending not to listen kept me from"										
"giving myself away. Perhaps, actually, I did stiffen or startle – but in the night and the flickering firelight, I doubt anyone saw."""										
"""And the ragged, hunchbacked old man was not"""										
"""looking at me, anyway, but at the doss in the waterproof as he said, “Me little granddaughter, no more’n fourteen years on this cruel earth."										
Less’n a week ago she went out to sell pen-wipers an’ such from a basket										
"– ”"""										
My heart started to pound.										
"""“ – with the tears runnin’ down ’er face, so I ’ear, from ’er misery – ”"""										
I felt the oddest wrenching sensation within my chest.										
"“ – an’ she hain’t been ’eard of since.” I wanted to run away. ""Therefore, knowing I must show no sign of what I was feeling, I continued to pass out foodstuffs, working my way towards the stranger."" Stranger?"										
"""In a sense, yes."""										
"""“She were wearin’ a waterproof much like that’un yer got on,” he was saying, his accent impeccably lower-class. “Where, if yer don’t mind tellin’ me, did – ”"""										
"""Before he could complete the question, I thrust a"" meat pie in front of his nose."										
He turned to accept it. In his very dirty face between filthy cap and filthy beard I saw keen grey eyes										
"""looking up at me. “Why, thank ye.”"""										
"""With greatest fervour mentally I reminded myself that he could see nothing more of me than a muffled, mantled, veiled, almost shapeless silhouette in the night."""										
"""He asked me, “Ye prowl all through these parts, Sister? Beggin’ yer pardon, would yer chance to know the whereabouts o’ a skinny stick o’ a girl called Ivy?”"""										
I handed him cheese to go with the meat pie.										
"""“Tall for ’er age, she is,” he continued, “but if ye fed her beans, she’d look like yer rosary, she would, she’s that thin.”"""										
"""One of the dosses told him, “The Sister uv the Streets won’t answer yer. She never says nuttin’.” “I begs yer pardon.” Something of his genteel"" ""courtesy sounded through his Cockney accent. “Thank ye fer the food, Sister.”"""										
In no way could he know how truly he spoke: I was indeed his sister. It was my brother Sherlock.										
CHAPTER THE THIRTEENTH										
"""THE NEXT MORNING IVY MESHLE, FOR THE first"""										
"""time since her visit to Baker Street, reported to work without fear. No longer did that worthy secretary need to fret, for Sherlock Holmes did not seek her; he was on the hunt for a poor street vendor who had worn a waterproof."""										
"""So I felt better, yet worse, for I had heard a quiver of emotion – the genuine article, I sensed, not just an actor’s rendition – in my brother’s voice when he had described me as a skinny girl crying with wretchedness."""										
Surely he realised I did not actually live in poverty? He knew I had money.										
But just as surely Mrs. Hudson had told him how miserably I had been weeping when she let me in.										
"""Confound everything. Intent only on getting my cipher book back, I hadn’t realised how such news might affect him."""										
"""How, howcould I safely reassure brother Sherlock of my well-being?"" ""Such were my troubled musings as I entered the establishment of Dr. Leslie T. Ragostin, Scientific Perditorian."""										
"""“Good morning, m’lady!” cried the eager boy-in- buttons as he took my"										
"ulster."""										
"""“Joddy,” I told him with some asperity, “have you ever considered that other employers might change your rather ridiculous name to James, or Cecil, or Algernon, just to suit themselves?”"""										
"""“Um, no, m’lady! I mean no, Miss Meshle.”"""										
"""“Just so, Joddy. ‘Miss Meshle’ is how I prefer to be addressed. Please be good enough to bring me the morning newspapers, and some tea.”""    ""But I scanned the papers without pleasure, for there was still no word from Mum."""										
"""Well, surely in a day or two . . ."""										
"""But I so badly wanted her to advise me about Sherlock. Without benefit of her greater wisdom, how might I take action? Send my brother a letter of reassurance? But – he was so confoundedly clever – what if he somehow traced it back to me?"""										
"Place a similar message for him in the newspaper personal columns?    ""But to do so, even in cipher, would be to make our family difficulties"										
"public. I could not risk damaging Sherlock’s pride even worse than I had already."""										
"""Moreover, surely brother Mycroft – who so far, cold kidney pie that he was, had not much troubled me or my thoughts – surely Mycroft would see such a message as well, and what sort of hornet’s nest might ensue . . . I could not imagine."""										
I had no idea what to do.										
"Sitting behind my desk in a shadowed frame of ""mind, looking over Dr. Ragostin’s meagre"""										
"""correspondence, I found myself doodling on the backs of papers I had set aside to discard, producing a caricature of my brother with his cloth cap and his forelock hanging down. Unaccountably, I felt slightly better."										
"Always, when irritated or uneasy, I feel driven"" ""to draw – so, supplying myself with a sheaf of"""										
"""foolscap paper, I began to sketch in earnest. Sherlock again, then Mycroft, then Mum, then others. Faces, mostly. The ragged little girl who had swept a"""										
crossing for me. The dosses on the workhouse steps. Lady Theodora in her black jewellery. My mind had gone off in directions of its own. I drew the face of Alexander Finch.										
"""And to my own surprise, I gave it quite a nasty sneer."" What ever in the world?"										
"""Sitting back, I closed my eyes and tried to recapture my visit to Ebenezer Finch & Son Emporium. Memories spoke in my mind:"""										
"“. . . sort of colours one would expect from a screaming anarchist.” ""“She’d been reading Das Kapital, and we discussed the exploitation of the masses.” “She wanted me to showher the proletariat.” “What I think is, she walked right out the front door and put that ladder there herself.”"""										
Had Alexander Finch’s father merely been										
releasing choler – or had he been calling his son an anarchist ?										
I knew “anarchists” were blamed for dynamiting										
"""Victoria Station, attacking the offices of the Times, and most recently, attempting to blow up the Tower of London, but other than what I saw in the newspapers, I knew nothing of these foreign assassins, these secret societies. Were anarchists something of the Marxist sort?"""										
Yet Alexander Finch had led me to believe that Lady Cecily was a Marxist?										
"""But if so, why had she mentioned nothing of such beliefs in her private journals?"""										
"""He had asserted that she had put the ladder under the window herself. But, having experienced the pleasure of her dainty acquaintance, he must have known that was simply not possible."""										
Lady Cecily had met Alexander Finch. Lady Cecily had corresponded with										
Alexander Finch. Lady Cecily had explored London with Alexander Finch. And Lady Cecily had gone missing.										
"""Surely not entirely a coincidental series of events. Yet the police had failed to find her through him,"""										
"and they watched him constantly – Or so he said. ""How foolish of me to accept his assurance, and"""										
"""Lady Theodora’s, that he was kept under constant scrutiny."" ""How much did I know, really know, about Alexander Finch?"" Very little."										
"I arose from my desk to go talk with him again. ""However, this time, it was not Ivy Meshle who sallied"""										
"""forth to the department store. Instead, it was Mrs. Ragostin. Or not Mrs. Ragostin, exactly, for today I wore a rich satin-and-velveteen day- dress not at all dowdy, and I would exhibit no timidity of manner."										
"Alexander Finch had my-ladied me; very well, I’d be a lady – or at least, gentry – and I’d see how he liked that. I paid my sixpence a mile in  order to arrive at Finch & Son in a cab."""										
"""A hansom cab, despite the cold, because I wanted a good view of the building’s exterior."""										
"""Warmly wrapped in my long fur cloak, I did not immediately exit the cab as it drew to a halt in front of the Finch establishment. I took my time, looking: not at that glittering mercantile palace of brass, gas, and glass, the Emporium itself, but instead peering skyward, studying the building’s upper storeys where the clerks lodged. Dormers. Gables."										
"Drainpipes."""										
Closely approximating the dormers and gables and drainpipes of the buildings on either side.										
"""Meanwhile, a uniformed constable, looking quite dull, stood across the street, no doubt stationed there to watch the front door in case Alexander Finch came out."""										
Humph.										
"""Exiting the cab and dismissing it, I sailed into the department store with my silk-gloved hands in my fur muff, my hat towering with ostrich feathers and my skirt regally trailing."""										
"""“I should like to speak with Master Alexander Finch,” I demanded condescendingly of the first clerk I encountered."""										
"""A slight, freckled, rickety sort of young man, he visibly fumbled for words before squeaking out a reply. “Alexander Finch, ah, I am not sure he is in just now, ah, my lady.”"""										
I arched my brows in feigned ire and genuine astonishment: This hapless clerk was more afraid of young Finch than he was of me?										
I remembered how the willowy girl at the shoe counter had fled at young Finch’s command.										
"""At that misfortunate moment it occurred to me to wonder: Why had that peculiar youth chosen to converse with me in the shoe department, while walking past, for instance, gloves?"""										
"""Because he liked boots, I supposed. Especially the lace-up sort. He enjoyed pulling the lacings tight; why, he had quite strangled –""    ""I felt the strangest chill run through me, as my"""										
"""personage comprehended a moment in advance of my mind. Indeed, I suddenly felt so weak that I swayed on my feet."""										
“My lady?” The clerk’s anxious voice seemed to reach me from a great distance.										
"""As those other voices had sounded, so far away, that night as I had regained consciousness with a garrote still around my neck. I remembered terror, blur, fog, the nondescript man lifting my veil."""										
I remembered where I had seen Alexander Finch’s face before.										
"""The freckled clerk cried, “Help, somebody! She’s going to faint!”"""										
"""An excellent idea, as my intentions had taken quite a sudden about-face."										
"I now fervidly wished to avoid speaking with Alexander Finch; he must not see me. And while I had never feigned a faint before, it seemed simple enough. Rolling my eyes upward as I closed them, I began to collapse towards the floor."""										
"""“Catch ’er, then!” Another male voice, rather Cockney, spoke close to my ear as the fellow grasped me under the elbow."""										
"""The rickety clerk, I think, took my other arm, and I allowed myself to sag in the hands of my supporters as they hustled me through a door somewhere off to the side of the store. “Lay ’er on the bench,” said another voice, a woman’s this time. “ ’Oo is she?”"""										
“Dunno. She wanted to see Master Alexander.” “Coo! Somebody ought to warn										
’er.”										
"""I felt my personage being placed as directed, gently enough, considering how unyielding a wooden bench is. Someone began to unbutton my high collar. Easing my eyes open just enough to peep through my eyelashes, I saw that my Good Samaritan was a female servant of middle age. The highbacked bench faced the hearth, hiding the rest of the room from my view, but I surmised – if only from that rude item of furniture – that they had taken me to the clerks’ tea- and-luncheon room."""										
"“What did she want to see ’im for?” asked a man’s voice. ""“I dunno. Right wrought up, she was.”"""										
"""“D’ye think, wit the swag she’s wearin’ on ’er, she might be a shipyard boss’s wife, like? Or a factory owner’s? Tryin’ to talk some sense into ’im about all the trouble ’ee’s stirrin’ up?”"""										
"""“I always did say them factory ’uns are a rough lot, especially them match girls.” Unbuttoning my cuffs to chafe my wrists, the servant evidently considered herself to be on equal standing with the clerks, for she spoke her mind. “Them and their so-called strike. Too mule-headed to touch chemicals, an’ only workin’ fourteen hours a day now – ”"""										
"""“It’s not the match girls ’ee’s fomentin’ anymore, it’s the dock-men and"										
"– ”"""										
“ – and what they want with all that free time is										
"""beyond me, doin’ whatever they like – ” “ – and the carters and such.”"" ""“ – spoilin’ their reputations, lurin’ good girls out of the domestic service, and this poor lady faintin’ away for want of proper care – where’s the smellin’ salts, for the luvva mercy?”"""										
“Oh! Right ’ere!”										
"""With my eyes once more firmly lidded, I laid still as the pungent restorative was presented to my nose, disciplining myself not to respond, for I wanted to hear more. While my person and face appeared, I hoped, insensible, my mind hopped, shrieked and grabbed like a child presented with sugar-plums: Foment?"""										
Alexander Finch? Dock workers? Match girls? Strike? Hadn’t Joddy mumbled something about a match and a strike?										
"""One of the male voices was saying, “The carters is mostly bein’ sensible, wot I ’ear, but the dockyards is all like a pot on the boil to strike a blow for worker’s rights, wot they call it.”"""										
“She ain’t comin’ round.” My nurse sounded worried. “Get me a scissors so’s I can cut her staylacings.”										
"""Oh. Oh, no, she must not be permitted to see my corset. I bestirred my eyelids slightly."""										
"""“Wait a minute,” said the kindly woman."""										
"""At the same time an unmistakable voice roared from somewhere close at hand, “What’s going on here? Get back to your stations!”"""										
"""“Yes, Mr. Finch.”"""										
"""“Yes, sir.”"""										
"""“The lady fainted, you see.”"""										
“Lady?” bellowed the elder Finch. “What lady?”										
"""I interjected a moan, in order to deflect his attention from his clerks"										
"onto me."""										
"""“Well, send for a doctor!” he barked. “You men get back to work. You got no business loitering about when a lady’s lying down.”"""										
"""The door slammed behind their various voices. I opened my eyes, smiled weakly at the servant, and told her I was feeling better, thank you so much, but my over-fed candy-grabbing mind snatched at “loitering.” Alexander Finch had been just a bystander perhaps, who had chanced to be “loitering about” on the night I was unconscious, lying in the street?"" Which was only a few days after Lady Cecily had disappeared?"										
"When the police were supposed to be keeping a close eye on him?    ""Each thought made me feel queasier, more faint and ill, but I forced"										
"myself to smile, stand up, and take my leave, for matters of the utmost urgency required my attention."""										
CHAPTER THE FOURTEENTH										
BEFORE THE SHADOWY SMOKE-CLOTTED day										
"""could darken to even more shadowy night, I returned"""										
"""to the vicinity of Ebenezer Finch & Son. I will spare the gentle reader a full account of the risks of detection I had run in the interval; briefly put, after changing back into Miss Meshle at Dr. Ragostin’s office, I had then,"""										
"""at my lodging, eluded Mrs. Tupper to exit as a nun, wearing my heavily veiled habit for the sake of its total concealment of my features, even though it made me an object of curiosity. I felt the glances of passersby as I walked out of St. Pancras Station; these Londoners had not seen me before. In this reasonably prosperous area there was small need for the Sister of the Street’s ministrations."""										
"""Not that I had ventured here for the sake of charity. I came empty- handed. So to speak, as my gloved fingertips beneath my mantle, folded almost as if in prayer, rested upon the concealed hilt of my dagger."" ""I ventured nowhere near the resplendent front of Ebenezer Finch & Son Emporium. Instead, approaching that seductive establishment from the"										
"rear, through a maze of mews where cart-horses and milk-cows were kept, I stopped in the shadow of a pigeon-cote to survey the terrain. Once again  I studied the Finch building’s windows, roofline, and rainspouting with  an interest which architecture had never before inspired in me; this was the first time I’d had occasion to regard a building as a structure to be climbed. As if surveying a winter tree for the best way up and/or down, with my gaze I traced different routes until I decided how I would do  it."""										
"""Predicting, then, where in the rapidly darkening back passageways Alexander Finch would descend, I retreated once more into the concealing mews, made a circuit, then found myself a sheltering doorway in which to wait."""										
"""Before it was quite dark, as I had expected – for he needed to be able to see his way down somewhat, and he could not give himself away by carrying a light"""										
"""– just at nightfall here he came like a sort of monstrous caterpillar along the rooftops, creeping along shingles or tiles on his knees and elbows, keeping his head down and staying out of sight of any constable who might be standing watch in the street or at the store’s back door. From time to time I lost sight of him behind chimney-stacks, but always in a brief while he reappeared. With a nimble ease that showed how often he had done this before, he swung himself across the gaps between buildings. Having reached the end of the row, he descended to the eaves, swivelled around and let himself down by the water-pipe on to the wooden top of a covered water- barrel and so to the gravel of the corner chandler’s"""										
delivery-drive.										
"""I could just make out the pale mask of his face, eyeglasses and all, as"										
"he glanced around. Rather than the dandified garments in which I had seen him previously, he wore the rough dark flannel and corduroy of a day- labourer, and a cloth cap. As soon as he had made sure there was no one nearby – or so he thought – he strode off towards the street."""										
I let him get well ahead of me before I slipped from the shadows and followed.										
"""This, northwest London, was a quarter not nearly so poor as the East End"										
"– no ladies of the night or water- spigots stood on the corners; folk here had their own vices and their own plumbing – but neither was it fashionable nor rich. Nondescript, like Alexander Finch’s face, with streets neither crowded nor deserted, it was an area I knew only a little. I could count on the fingers of one hand the times I had been in this part of the city: to visit Dr. Watson, to burgle my brother Sherlock’s lodgings, and twice to “shop” at Ebenezer Finch & Son Emporium. Four times not counting the venture of the moment. It is no wonder I rather lost my way as I followed Alexander Finch."""										
"""And on several occasions I very nearly lost him. It was, fortuitously, a night rather less thick than usual, but even so, darkness abounded. I had seen the electric lighting along the Thames Embankment – utterly amazing, nearly turning night to day. By comparison, the wavering flames of gas street-lamps only interrupted the night, did not vanquish it. Most of the time Alexander Finch, like the other folk on the street, remained a  shadow amongst shadows; I could see him clearly only when he passed directly under a street-lamp."""										
"""So that he should not see me in like wise, I walked in the middle of the street – a venture I hope never to repeat. In daytime, it would have been dangerous; at night, and all clad in black, it was doubly so. Even with their coal-oil lamps lit, the carriage drivers could not see me to avoid running me over had I not dodged them: no simple matter, as the footing consisted of nameless, icy slop and horse muck. More than once I nearly fell, and one time I did indeed lose my footing and had to roll across  the cobbles to keep myself"""										
"""from being trampled under the horses’ iron-shod hooves. I struggled up, skirt and mantle wet and dragging, just in time to get out of the way of a great clopping Clydesdale pulling a lumber-wagon."""										
"""Indeed there were many carts and wagons now; Alexander Finch had led me into a sort of warehouse area adjacent, as nearly as I could reckon, to the great produce market, Covent Garden. Where on Earth –"""										
"""But even as I wondered, he halted at a decrepit doorway over which an ill-lettered placard advertised:"""										
BEDS SIXPENCE/NIGHT										
"""WOMEN’S WARD EIGHTPENCE TEA, BREAD, WASHING-WATER EXTRA"""										
"""In other words, the poorest sort of doss-house, or"""										
"""common-lodging house, with flea-and-lice-infested cots set in rows, the sort of place where the pitiful, hairless “crawler” on the workhouse steps had lost her few remaining possessions to a thief. The sort of place that had likely given her the ringworm in exchange."""										
I guessed – yet could not believe what I was thinking – whom young Finch expected to find within.										
"""But rather than knock at the door, he stepped around the corner of the slovenly building, out of sight."""										
"""Biting my lip, I stood like a black, muck-coated statue on the far side of the street, for, I admit, I simply did not know what to do. If I followed him into the narrow space between buildings, surely he would notice me. Yet if I did not follow him –"""										
I had to.										
"""Muttering something naughty, I strode across the street. But as I neared the doss-house, to my surprise a strange man stepped out of the shadow where Alexander Finch should have been. A man with long black hair and a"										
"spade-shaped full black beard. Only the skin around his eyes showed,"										
"starkly pallid beneath the beard, for he wore no eyeglasses, and his eyes – even though they did not look at me, I felt their force. Even in the night I saw how curiously bright, almost silver, they were. Beneath my veil my jaw dropped, my mouth gaped, and only with the most arduous mental discipline did I keep from gasping out loud."""										
"""The man was Alexander Finch. In disguise. But I would not have known him had it not been for the cloth cap, flannel shirt, corduroy jacket, and trousers he wore."""										
"""Intent on his business, he had taken no particular note of me amongst the others passing by. As he turned his back to knock on the door of the doss- house, I slipped into the hiding place he had just quitted."""										
"""He knocked hard, impatiently, upon the door until it opened. Then, in honey-and-vinegar tones, Finch inquired, “Would my lady care to take the air?”"""										
"""She did not answer, only slipped out of that dark doorway like a frightened animal – indeed, I would not have kept a dog in such a hole."" “Give me the lantern.”"										
"""She carried a lantern? Apparently. I saw movement, and then Alexander Finch struck a match."""										
"""And at my first plain sight of Lady Cecily, I struggled anew to keep  from crying out. I would not have known her had he not led me to her – indeed, I think her own mother might not have recognised her gaunt, pale"" ""face, her hair all in a dirty tangle beneath the cloth tied"""										
"""around her head, her shivering shoulders warmed only by a shawl, her skirt threadbare and tattered, her feet wrapped in rags. Only because my pencil had traced so many times those delicate features could I believe my eyes."""										
"""Lady Cecily, a beggar girl carrying a large basket."""										
"""He lit the lantern and handed it back to her. She said something, although she spoke so timidly, I could not hear the words."""										
"""“Work first,” he answered aloud. “Food afterward.” Again she murmured, her eyes huge and pleading."""										
"""But this time, instead of answering, he puffed his lips in exasperation, then peered at her and darted his fingertips towards her face as if he were shaking some sort of fluid out of himself and into her. His own face had gone very still, his curiously lightcoloured eyes fierce, focused, gleaming. His hands traced several sinuous passes around her head, then down over her shoulders. I would not have believed it had I"""										
"""not seen, but I saw: Without ever touching her, he took her utterly into his power. All hope and yearning, all her feeble life-force faded from her eyes, so that she stood like a most unlikely porcelain doll, starveling"""										
"""and ragged, in a sooty glass bell."""										
"""“Work first,” her master repeated. “Food afterward.”"" ""Without another glance at her, the wild-haired"""										
"""black-bearded scoundrel walked off in the direction of Paddington Station, and she limped after him, carrying both lantern and basket, like a rag-tag tied to his elbow. He was no taller than most youths, but her head, bowed, barely reached the level of his shoulder."""										
"""Staying well behind them, but allowing myself the luxury of the pavement this time, I followed, my mind in a hullabaloo of horror, curiosity, and speculation, for I could not yet quite take in what I had seen. And all the while my entire person, indeed my very skin, tingled with urgency to do something, assist her in some way, intervene – but how? And against what, exactly?"""										
"I could not yet make sense of the circumstances. I could only watch.  ""At a corner opposite a public house, some roughlooking men clotted beneath a street-lamp. I saw Alexander Finch, with Lady Cecily trailing"										
"behind him like a child, stop to greet them. After handshakes all around,"										
"they set up a wooden crate of some sort, and Alexander – or the black-"										
"bearded impostor I could scarcely believe to be Alexander – got upon the improvised dais and started to speak. Keeping to the shadows, I stood too far off to hear properly, but I caught references to “capitalist oppression,” “empire built upon the backs of exploited labour,” “workers’ rights” and so forth. Undoubtedly I was observing Finch, the “outside influence” of which the newspaper columnists spoke, in the very act of fomenting unrest"""										
"""in the working class, specifically the carters and dock-"" ""workers, as the clerks at the Finch Emporium had"""										
"""said. That they knew of the young master’s nighttime activities surprised me not at all; servants and the like always know everything, although they will tell nothing, except to one another."""										
"""Ascending his speaking platform, Alexander had given Lady Cecily her orders, and now she stood at a small distance from him, beneath another gas-lamp mounted upon the wall of the corner building, rather woodenly reaching into her basket and offering each person who stopped to listen something small and white."""										
My word. Joddy had said he had seen her with “papers.”										
"Pamphlets. For a labour union or some such rabble-rousing  endeavour. ""Already a considerable crowd of men, and a very few women, had gathered to listen to Alexander Finch’s harangue. I would perhaps be not unduly noticed if I approached, just another by-passer, who happened to be a nun, on the street?"""										
"""After considering for a moment, I decided to take the risk."" ""Trying to show neither haste nor hesitation, I walked towards Lady Cecily."""										
"""“. . . the opiate of the masses!” the bearded Finch was declaiming from his – yes, I think it actually was a soap-box. “As all too plainly demonstrated in every good English aristocrat’s favourite childhood hymn: ‘All creatures great and small, the Lord God made them all; the rich man in his castle, the poor man at his gate, God made them high and lowly,  and ordered their estate’? The good lord God is said to have decreed that three quarters of the populace shall live and labour in bone-skewing mind-stunting"""										
"""poverty, while a favoured few shall occupy their days by having their servants assist them in five changes of clothing?”"""										
One could not help but admire the fervour and clarity with which he  spoke. He was brilliant. I agreed with much of what he was saying. It was hard to believe the foul deeds of which I suspected him.										
Yet one could speak truth and still be a villain. And there stood Lady Cecily.										
"""A few heads turned as I reached the edge of the crowd, but most who stood upon that corner wanted only to listen, whether in shock or in admiration. As for Finch himself, intent as he was on his oration, I hoped he did not notice the black-mantled, veiled Sister of Charity. Or even if he did, I imagined he could not at this moment devote much thought to our previous meeting, under what had been for me most unpleasant circumstances."""										
"""As for the girl with the basket, she stood as dull as the soot falling all around us, and as silent. Only when I passed directly in front of her, halfheartedly she poked"""										
a pamphlet at me.										
"""It was necessary that the mute Sister of the Streets must speak tonight, if never again."""										
"""“Lady Cecily,” I whispered to that personage as I accepted her tract."" She did not look at me."										
"""“Lady Cecily!” I spoke softly, yet close to her ear. I am sure she must have heard."""										
"""Yet she did not respond at all, not with a blink, a breath, a glance,"										
"not even with a startled twitch."""										
"""“Twice we have assembled peaceably as is our right,” the street-corner platform speaker passionately declaimed, “twice we have marched to Trafalgar Square under the silken flags of our guilds, to adjure the West End of London to remember us – and the police have beaten us back with billy-clubs. And after we withdrew bloodied and defeated, this is what  one member of Parliament had to say: ‘It is in bad taste"""										
for people to parade their insolent starvation in the face of the rich and trading portions of the town. They should have starved in their garrets.’ ”										
"""The crowd now overflowed into the street, as far as the opposite pavement, yet amongst all those bystanders one heard not a sound except the voice of the black-haired orator. Alexander Finch’s vehement silver glance passed like magnetism over and through the crowd, and to a man the listeners stood"""										
entranced. They gazed as if they were – Finally I allowed myself to think it.										
Mesmerised. Like Lady Cecily. CHAPTER THE FIFTEENTH										
MESMERISM. THE STUFF OF MUSIC-HALL										
entertainments and parlour amusements.										
I would not have believed it had I not seen it.										
"""But I had seen him do it to Lady Cecily. However briefly, I had seen him make the magnetic passes with his hands and penetrate her with his gaze, as Mrs. Bailey amongst others had described to me. And now Lady Cecily stood before me on a street corner: listless, in rags, an automaton, forgetting her hunger in order to hand out anarchist pamphlets."""										
"""Just looking at her, I wanted to scream with frustration. Desperately I desired to help her, free her, rescue her, do something – but what?""    ""Go fetch a police constable? But he would have no knowledge of the disappearance of Lady Cecily, and therefore no reason to detain her."" ""Race to tell Lady Theodora all that I knew, then let her deploy the authorities? But that would take hours, perhaps even a day, and in the meantime, what if something happened to Lady Cecily?"""										
"""“Let them set their imperialist police on us,” cried her captor to the street-corner crowd, “let them give us another Bloody Sunday! For next time we will colour our flags with the hue of our beaten heads! Next time we will fly red flags of revolution!” And the men tossed their ragged  caps in the air, wildly shouting, cheering for their newfound messiah."" But I knew that beneath the wild black wig and false beard he was no working-class hero."										
He was a sham. A rich shopkeeper’s son.										
"And he was glorying in the power with which he swayed the crowd. ""He liked to wield power, apparently."""										
"""Watching the subjugated girl, Lady Cecily, I knew I could not turn my back on her even for a moment, lest she disappear again. I must get her away from him. Here. Now."""										
"""But how? Un-Mesmerise her? This was done, I had heard, by performing the magnetic manoeuvres in reverse; it seemed most unlikely that I could accomplish it. Seize her and carry her off bodily? But then I would be pursued as a kidnapper, for she would cry out and struggle against me. I knew she would, for while she looked as meek as a dove – standing there with downcast eyes, handing out pamphlets – tame"""										
"""as she seemed, I knew full well there was another side to her, not the Lady Cecily who drew smudgy"""										
"""pastels but the left-handed lady who drew bold, dark – Wait a minute."" Lady Cecily – or the wan pauper girl whom I knew to be Lady Cecily – was giving out papers with her right hand."										
"""And as this realisation flashed upon me, such an"""										
"""electric illumination of simultaneous conjecture,"""										
"""hypothesis, and hope burst upon my benighted mind that I am sure my eyes went as round as bull’s-eye lanterns. Safely hidden by my black veil, my mouth gaped. I whispered, “Oh, my stars and garters!”"""										
Oh.										
"""Oh, if only I could do it: make contact with the left- handed lady, acting on the premise that only the proper and docile right-handed Lady Cecily had fallen under the power of the villain."""										
"""If the secret, rebellious left-handed lady lurked unfettered within this meek creature before me, I had to communicate with her, and quickly, and in a way that would cause her to connect with me as if by telegraph  wires, almost instantly."""										
"More by instinct than by conscious thought I knew how it might be done. ""Her charcoal drawings, you see, had strangely affected me. Touched some deep recognition in me. Almost as if she and I could be soul-mates."" ""Perhaps, just perhaps, she might similarly recognise me."""										
"""So, reaching into a pocket for pencil and paper – I always carried some with me – I opened the political pamphlet, hid the paper behind it, and standing with the gas-light to my back so that only the gaunt, listless girl in rags could see me, I drew."""										
"""Instinct, again, more than conscious thought, told"""										
"""me what to draw, how best to depict freedom as Lady Cecily had experienced it. Doing so, I sketched as rapidly and well as ever I had done in my life."""										
"""I drew a likeness of Lady Cecily, dressed in stylish modern “Turkish” bloomers, pedalling a bicycle – skimming the earth by her own power, as I too loved to do. Lady Cecily, strong and beautiful, smiling, with the  wind ruffling her hair and blowing her hat-ribbons in the air."""										
"""And as my pencil flew, out of the tail of my eye I could see the right- handed pauper girl grow motionless, forgetting her assigned task of handing out political tripe. I saw her stiffen, her gaze riveted upon the drawing."""										
"""I switched the pencil to my left hand. Very clumsily I began to scrawl beneath the drawing, from right to left, in mirror writing: “Who – ”""  ""But I had gone a bit too far. She dropped her basket, and before I could complete the question her left hand shot out, snatching the pencil and paper away from me. Dull as soot no longer, she stood before me like a small and icy flame, demanding, “How dare you? What do you think you are doing? Who are you?”"""										
"""Luckily, no one around us paid any attention, for the"""										
"""crowd roared agreement with Alexander Finch as he harangued, “Let them set their sabre-waving cavalry"""										
"""upon us, let them massacre us as they did at"" ""Peterloo, yet we will persevere !”"""										
Lady Cecily sounded as if she quite wanted a sabre to wield upon me. “Who are you?”										
"""And on the spur of that moment – oh, dear, how the cavalry metaphor does take hold – I mean, at that time of crisis, not knowing how else to calm her and answer her, I did something the Sister should never have done."" Had never done before. I lifted my veil."										
I let her see my face.										
"""My long, plain, “Ciceronian” face."""										
"""She stared. She took a breath and let it go in a puff, as if blowing out a candle-flame. “Why,” she said softly, “you’re just a girl.”"""										
"She continued to study me as if both puzzled and intrigued. ""“You draw marvellously well,” she added."""										
"""I thought of the superb charcoal artworks she had never let anyone see, and something must have shown in my face, something that made her smile."" ""“You’re no nun,” she said in a light tone as if teasing a girl-friend. “Whatever are you doing in that absurd habit?”"""										
"""In my most aristocratic accent, so that she would know we were alike in"										
"class as well as in other ways, I responded, “Lady Cecily, one might also ask – ”"""										
"""I meant to twit her about being a baronet’s daughter dressed in rags. But as I spoke her name, she froze, and let out a squeak, almost a scream, as if she had not known I knew her. As if she had not heard me call her by name before. As if she had been deaf then, but could hear me now."""										
"""Her reaction, fortunately, went unnoticed amidst the cheering of the crowd."""										
"""“Lady Cecily,” I tried again, “there is no need for alarm. I wish only to befriend you. To take you somewhere warm and safe, give you supper, and get you out of those rags.”"""										
"""She looked down at herself, then up at me again with a wild, frightened stare, then all around her, bewildered and half panicked, as if she scarcely knew where she was."""										
"""“The company here is most unpleasant,” I gently remarked. “Shall we go?” Taking her left hand – bare and blue, her poor hands, chapped with cold – I drew her a few steps away from Alexander Finch and his mob of followers."""										
"""“The working man has a right to unionise for a fair hourly pay,” that street-corner orator bellowed, “and a fair working day!”"""										
"""Lady Cecily stopped where she was. “No,” she faltered. “No, I – I can’t.”"""										
"""“Why not?” My tone remained soft and even, for above all I must not excite her again, must not risk"""										
drawing Finch’s attention to her. And to me.										
“He – my loyalty – the cause – the name of Cameron Shaw shall be written in the history of England; he will be a great man someday.”										
“Who?”										
"""“Cameron Shaw!” With a glance of fervid devotion she indicated the black-haired, black-bearded rabble- rouser on his soap-box. “Do you mean to say you"""										
have never heard of him?”										
"""Soothingly and also truthfully I answered, “I am most anxious to hear all about him. How did you meet"""										
him?”										
"""“I – it was – most peculiar . . .” With her brow creased, she stood  again bewildered, her eyes watering while she shivered in the cold like a lost child."""										
"""“Come,” I told her, and again taking her by the hand, I led her away."" ""At the first corner I veered onto a different street, out"""										
"""of Alexander Finch’s sight should he chance to turn his head. Then, breathing out, I slowed my pace so that Lady Cecily could get along more comfortably – stumbling on her half-frozen, rag-wrapped feet – but also so that I could attempt to decipher where we were and where we were going. Nothing looked familiar about any of the empty streets I scanned. I neither saw nor heard anyone else nearby; this neighbourhood seemed mostly deserted on a winter night, although anybody from a pickpocket to Jack the Ripper himself could have lurked in the foggy, smoky shadows between the street-lamps."""										
"""Lady Cecily’s teeth began to click like my rosary, such was the chill of the night and her fright. Stopping for a moment, finding in my pockets some of the strength-replenishing candies I always carried with me, I  gave them to her. As she fumbled to unwrap one and place it in her mouth, I took off my fur-lined gloves and put them onto her frigid hands. I opened my mantle and invited her to share its warmth, wrapping it around both of us, my left arm around her shoulder as if she were a little sister."""										
And my right hand fingering the hilt of my dagger as we moved on again.										
"""“So tell me,” I asked her once more, gently, “How did you meet this, um,"										
"Cameron Shaw?”"""										
“I – I can barely speak of it. You’ll think I’m mad.” “I promise you I will think nothing of the sort. How										
did it happen?”										
"""“In a dream,” she replied. “He came to me in my – in my sleep, in my mind, like a black-haired angel summoning me to be a handmaiden of his – of his crusade.”"""										
"""“Ah,” I murmured in what I hoped was a comforting, encouraging way, although I had to exercise my strongest self-control to keep from shuddering at the"""										
image forming in my mind: the disguised villain										
"""standing over her bed as she slept, staring at her with his eerie eyes, passing his hands over her slumbering innocence to penetrate her with the vital principle of his animal magnetism, taking her into his power  before she could completely awaken."""										
"""“I was chosen,” said the trembling lady. “Called. Like Joan of Arc.”"" ""“Yes, I understand.”"""										
"""“You do understand, don’t you?” Good; I had managed to keep my furious feelings out of my voice. All in a relieved rush Lady Cecily spoke on. “Then I awoke in the middle of the night, and there was no"""										
one in my room but the call was so strong that I got out of bed. I knew exactly what I must do.										
"""There were humble clothes laid out waiting for me, a skirt and blouse and shawl such as a washerwoman might wear. I put them on over my nightgown. The window was open. I climbed out. I climbed – down – down ."										
". .”"""										
"""The fearsome memory halted both her words and her feet. We stood at a benighted crossroads, and I recognised nothing in any direction, not even to tell east from west or north from south."""										
"""Blindly choosing a side street, I set off again, herding her along with me, before I spoke. “Down the ladder.”"""										
"""“How do you know?” But without waiting for an answer she went on. “Yes, the ladder, and it was so high, and it trembled, I was terrified, but I had to do it. He – Cameron Shaw, you know – he was waiting for me at the bottom.”"""										
“Had you ever met him before?”										
"""“No, never! Except in the dream. That is what makes it all so very –"										
"uncanny, you see.”"""										
So she did not recognise Alexander Finch under that false hair and fake beard.										
"""Alexander Finch. Shopkeeper’s son. I remembered how I had first seen him as nothing more than a nondescript youth. Dressed like a “gent,” but  aside from dandified clothing, a nothing. How woodenly he had stood, seemingly without spirit, as the elder Finch had ranted at him."""										
But now I began to understand: All that rage had not been wasted upon him. He had taken it in. A lifetime’s worth.										
"And it had made him a person whom I should be very loath to trust. ""Lady Cecily stiffened under my arm, my mantle. As suddenly as if she"										
"were a puppet and someone had pulled her strings, she halted, saying in a strange tone, “I ought to be getting back.”"""										
“Back where? Home?” “I have no home.”										
“Certainly you have a home. A baronet’s mansion.” “With Daddy always and forever droning about the										
"""Burden of Empire and the Progress of Man,"""										
meanwhile intending to marry me off to anything titled and wearing trousers? No. I cannot go back there.”										
"""I tightened my arm around Lady Cecily’s shoulders, touched by her honesty. And by her conversation. One must realise that I had gone for"										
the better part of a year lacking any intimate conversation with another										
"human being, and this girl – so much like me, after all"""										
"""– just talking with her, I experienced great warmth of feeling for her."" ""“There are other possibilities,” I said."""										
"""“Such as the life you have chosen, perhaps? How did you do it? Who are you? You have not yet told me your name.”"""										
"""And oh, I wanted to. I yearned to tell her all about myself."" ""My most lonely, peculiar, eccentric self."""										
"""Maybe – maybe it would not after all be necessary to return her to her life of smudged pastels and the polite, right-handed taking of tea."" Maybe she could instead live – like a sister – with me?"										
CHAPTER THE SIXTEENTH										
I FELT MY LIPS TREMBLING AS THEY PARTED. I										
"""felt my breathing hasten. I heard myself say, “Enola. My name is Enola Holmes.”"""										
"""And I would have told her more. I would have told her all about myself, if it were not that, just at that moment, a voice intervened from the darkness."""										
“Cecily! Come here!” The voice of her master. Not far away.										
"""Lost and circling, I had failed to get her well away from him. And I am sure you will think that I overspeak, gentle reader, when I say that I felt the presence of his rage like a force of nature in the night, but I tell you merest truth: His fury vibrated in the sooty shadows, palpable."" ""I felt Lady Cecily startle like a frightened fawn, and"""										
"""cringe, and begin to shake. “I must get back,” she whispered in terror."" ""“No!” Holding on to her as I wildly scanned the neighbourhood for some escape or refuge, at last I recognised a nearby street. I had visited there. I knew where I was, and which way to flee –"""										
"""But she broke away from me. “Lady Cecily, no!”"""										
"""She never so much as turned her head in farewell; indeed, she seemed not to hear me. Nor did she run from me. Like a somnambulist she walked away from me – or rather, towards him. I could see him now, a blacker form in the darkness at the bottom of the street. While I stood rigid in the shadows, she shuffled towards him like a blind person, in grimed rags  that might once have been white."""										
“Cecily!” He saw her in the street-lamp light. Although I heard no gladness in that recognition.										
I heard fearsome peril.										
“How dare you leave your work. Come here.”										
It appeared that he had not heard me or seen me. Yet. I pulled my veil down to conceal my face.										
"""He stalked towards Lady Cecily; she walked to meet him. In the middle of the shadowed, deserted street she faced him, head bowed as if she were a naughty child. I heard him speak to her in tones that mocked, yet menaced."""										
"""I did not catch the words, for my attention was fully occupied with any sounds I myself might make, slipping towards them."""										
I saw him lower his bearded head to breathe into Lady Cecily’s face. I saw her cringe.										
"""Taking a twisted way through the deepest shadows, I crept nearer to them, quite near, without being seen."""										
"""“Listen to me. You listen, worthless chit,” he was saying as I tiptoed towards him from one side, and his"""										
anger would have been fearsome enough in and of										
"""itself, but there was more; it was the Mesmerist commanding her, the magnetiser holding her helpless with his cobra stare. “You shall obey me or you will be punished. For your disobedience tonight you forfeit your supper. What have I just told you? Speak.”"""										
"""Like an echo of him or a ghost of herself she started to whisper, “For my disobedience – ”"""										
"""At that moment I charged. With a yell worthy of a street urchin I darted"										
"both hands into the Mesmerist’s face and gripped hair. Savage, screeching, tugging as hard as I could, with one hand I snatched off his wig. With the other I pulled off his false beard."""										
"""Lady Cecily shrieked; had she been corseted, I believe she might have fainted. But with a great gasp she rallied, crying, “Alexander Finch?”"" ""There he stood, in his own head naked even of his tinted eyeglasses, seeming unable to think what to do or say."""										
"""“Alexander Finch!” Lady Cecily shouted, outraged. It was as I had thought; she would bear ill usage from one whom she admired, but she  could not abide being deceived. “Impostor! Fraud!” All had reversed in that moment as I stood aside, flinging the disgusting hairy objects in my hands down on the street. “How dare you play me for a fool!”""    ""“Silence,” he told her with an attempt at his former authority."" ""“Silence? You vile beetle, no, you maggot!” He did indeed rather  resemble a maggot with his round pale head, his pallid eyes. “You worm, you may well wish for silence, but I will not rest until every police court in England has heard of your infamy.” With a glare fit to cut him open like a razor, she turned to walk away."""										
But this man knew no shame. He grabbed for her. “Don’t turn your back on me. I am talking to you.”										
"""She eluded his grasp and marched off. Not running away. On frozen feet wrapped in rags, she walked at an aristocratic pace. Perhaps hers had  been a dual personality once, but not anymore. No one could have mistaken her for a pauper in that moment; she sailed like a ship on the Thames, every inch a lady."""										
"""“Wench, don’t you dare defy me!”"""										
"""She made no reply but to keep walking. “Proud bitch, I’m warning you.” And although"""										
"""Alexander Finch’s voice did not rise, something in his tone turned me colder than the night ever could, and raised the small hairs on the back of my neck."""										
Dual personality?										
"""No, it was not Lady Cecily who had gone the way of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde."""										
I saw her hasten her pace slightly as she kept walking.										
“No chit of a girl turns her back on me !” shouted Finch as he whipped something out of his pocket.										
Something long. Long loop of white.										
Seeming to writhe like a white snake in the night.										
"""It is one thing to suspect, or even to know in one’s heart, but quite another thing actually to see. The sight stunned me out of my wits for a moment, so that I could only cry out, “No!” and leap at him to stop him."" Most ineffectually."										
"""He quite simply clouted me with the back of his fist, sending me flying to one side, after which he paid me no further heed. Perhaps he  remembered my panicked flight after our other nighttime encounter, and expected the same. Perhaps he thought no female could do anything more than scream, faint, or run away. Perhaps in his murderous rage he did not think at all."""										
"""His blow felled me to the cobblestones, where I lay with all the breath knocked out of me. Paralysed for a moment. Unable to move."""										
But I could see.										
"""I saw that maddened villain spring like a beast of prey after Lady Cecily. Pouncing upon her from behind, he threw the garrote over her head and drew it tight."""										
"""Lady Cecily’s face contorted. Her eyes rolled skyward. Her hands flew to her neck, clawing at the vicious unseen thing constricting, constricting"										
"to cut short her life, just as my hands had done that dreadful night when"										
"–"""										
"""And in that stunned instant, gasping for breath and remembering, I learned what it meant to “see red.” The night turned that hue before my eyes as wrath galvanised me so that I leapt to my feet. My dagger seemed to spring to my hand, so fiercely had I drawn it. Weapon raised, I hurtled towards the garroter."""										
"""Cruel. He has no reason to enslave her except that he likes to play with power. He had no other reason to attack me, either. To strangle me senseless, nearly to death, before – although perhaps only because of a chance interruption – he had stopped to amuse himself by having a look at my face."""										
"""“Maggot!” I cried. “You – sewer rat, you repulsive, creeping – ” Confound my genteel upbringing, I could not think of any name foul enough to call that evil wretch as I plunged the knife into him."""										
Into the swollen muscle of his upper arm. Not his heart. Even such a monster I did not care to kill.										
With a hoarse cry he let go of his vile murder-toy; Lady Cecily dropped to the cobblestones.										
"""I think Alexander turned to face me, hands lifted to fend off my blows, but indeed I scarcely know. I remember only that I stabbed him again, in the arm or shoulder, stabbed and stabbed again in a halfblind blood-hued fog of fury; I do not know how many times I struck him, or how well, or what words I ranted, or whether he tried to wrest the knife away from me,"""										
before I realised that I was stabbing at nothing but the air.										
"""I blinked, hearing his running footsteps, and my vision cleared so that I saw him clutching himself as he fled."""										
Blood spotted the cobbles.										
"""And on the cold street Lady Cecily lay crumpled amidst her rags, white and still."""										
"""Heavens have mercy, I had been saved by a high, whalebone-ribbed collar the night I was attacked – but she wore none."""										
She sprawled as if dead.										
"""“Please, no,” I whispered, starting to shake all over as wrath gave way to dread; my hand shook as, without conscious thought, I returned my dagger, all bloody, to its sheath in my busk. “Please,” I begged the night as I knelt beside Lady Cecily, for in that moment I realised how deep the garrote had bitten into her delicate neck. And confound my hands, they trembled so badly that I could barely grasp the ugly thing, taking dreadful moments to loosen it."""										
"""Frantically I felt at her throat for breath, at her wrist for pulse. I thought I felt a flutter of something – perhaps – but I quaked so that I could not tell for sure."""										
Help. I needed help for the lady.										
"""And by a strange, maybe even providential chance, I knew where help was to be found."""										
Close at hand.										
"""Lifting the lady’s limp form in my arms, I staggered to my feet, blundering towards a modest office-and- residence nearby. Closed, shuttered, and locked now, of course, for the night, but I stumbled up the white stone steps to the door, leaned there, and freeing one hand, I plied the brass knocker with all my remaining strength."""										
"""I kept up my frenzied knocking until the door actually opened. Still clinging to the stricken lady, I staggered, nearly falling, into the front hallway."""										
"""I only glimpsed the very startled parlour-maid who had let me in, for my panicked gaze had fixed on the equally startled gentleman emerging from the library with an after-dinner drink in his hand – Dr. Watson."""										
"""I tried to say something to him, but choked on my own words, for right"										
"beside the good doctor walked his dinner companion and friend – my brother – Sherlock Holmes."""										
CHAPTER THE SEVENTEENTH										
LUCKILY IT WAS SCARCELY POSSIBLE FOR me										
to react with more panic than I was already revealing										
"""– in my agitation of manner, for my face remained hidden by its dense black veil."""										
"""And luckily Sherlock Holmes’s attention, like Dr. Watson’s, was all taken up by the limp, very possibly lifeless girl sagging against me."" ""“Good heavens!” Striding to me, Watson picked up Lady Cecily as if cradling a child. Nearly running, he carried her into the warm, well- lighted library."""										
"""Following, my brother asked, “Is she breathing?” “Only just.”"""										
"""She was alive, then. Hearing that, suddenly I felt light-headed, indeed light of person, as if I might float, such a burden had been lifted from me."""										
"""Doctor Watson laid the lady upon a leather davenport and applied his trained fingers to her wrist. “Her pulse is weak. Brandy, Holmes!”""  ""My brother was already striding towards the decanter, his back to me."										
"The parlour-maid stood at some distance from me, clinging to the stairway newel as if she might faint. At that moment I could have simply turned, stepped out of the door, and slipped away into the darkness."""										
I knew I should. There was no reason for me to stay. Lady Cecily would be well cared for.										
"""And there was every reason for me to leave. Dr. Watson’s attention might turn towards me, or the attention of his friend might do the same; my brother might recognise me. Moreover, at any moment Lady Cecily might regain her senses and say my name, which like a fool I had told her."" Every nerve told me to flee."										
"""Yet, instead, like an overlarge black moth drawn to a candle-flame, I ghosted into the room with the others."""										
With my brother.										
With the girl whom I had wanted to be my friend. And with the fatherly Dr. Watson.										
"""Kneeling beside his patient, removing the cord from her neck, Watson exclaimed, “What sort of brute would garrote a beggar girl!” He called towards the entryway, “Rose, send for the police!”"""										
"""Rose, I supposed, was the parlour-maid, who might or might not feel well enough to respond."""										
"""At Watson’s elbow now with the brandy, Holmes said, “That’s no beggar girl. Look at her teeth. All her life they have been well cared for.”"" ""Administering the brandy, Watson did not immediately answer."""										
"""“Look at her skin, her features. Our guest is a lady.” “If that’s so, then what is she doing in such – ”"""										
"My imperious brother interrupted. “There is some ""mystery here.” Hawk-like, he turned on me where I"""										
"""stood just within the library door, perhaps ten feet from him. His steel-grey eyes fixed on my much-"""										
"""besmirched mantle, and his eyebrows shot up. “Is that"" blood?”"										
"""I suppose that, on my black clothing all draggled by the muck of the street, and in the gas-light, it was hard to tell what the wet stains were."""										
"""“Blood?” Glancing up to see what Holmes was talking about, Dr. Watson also looked at me, then stood up quite suddenly. “Madam, are you injured?”"""										
"""Actually, I was hurt, my face bruised and aching from Alexander Finch’s blow. But I shook my veiled head to indicate the negative."""										
"""Again, I could have fled, should have fled, but some pernicious yearning"										
"kept me where I was."""										
"""Dr. Watson asked, “Why do you not speak?”"""										
"""“The Sister of the Streets is a mute, I have heard,” Holmes told his friend without looking at him; his grey gaze remained nailed upon me as if he might thereby pierce my veil."""										
"""“Or perhaps she is hurt and in shock,” said Dr.""    Watson. “That does look like blood. Quantities of blood.”"										
"""“We lack data to arrive at any conclusion,” said Holmes, and he started towards me to investigate."""										
I whipped out my dagger.										
"""My brother stopped where he stood, perhaps six feet from me. Everything seemed to stop in that moment as I threatened with my razor-sharp honedsteel blade. Even the ticking of the clock seemed to stop. I remember utter stillness, utter silence."""										
The knife’s silver-coloured tip wore a red veil.										
"""The silence stretched, then broke. Watson broke it, his voice a bit strained. “I think it’s not her blood, Holmes.”"""										
"""“I would quite like to know whose,” murmured the great detective. Then he spread his hands towards me in a pacific yet quelling gesture, and he started to protest, or cajole, “My dear Sister – ”"""										
His dear sister.										
Those words – how oddly they affected me.										
"""“Do not condescend to me!” I hardly recognised my own quite distinctive, aristocratic voice bursting forth, as it never should have done, from under my veil. “I am in no need of assistance. On the other hand, Lady Cecily” – with a jerk of my weapon I indicated the still- unconscious  girl lying on the sofa – “daughter of Sir Eustace Alistair, requires more care than I can give her.” Although she was unlikely ever to receive it – care for her alienisation of the psyche, her secret left- handed self."										
"But if the police were on the way, there was no time to explain. I continued, “The villain who garroted her – ”"""										
"""His voice glassy and cracked with – with incredulity,"""										
"""I suppose – my brother interrupted, “Enola?” His face had gone as keen and white as a fine carving in marble."""										
"""“Do not speak. Listen.” There was no time for melodrama; I had to finish what I was saying. “Please attend to what I am telling you. The garroter is Alexander Finch, a youth who once contrived to befriend the lady, and who has since Mesmerised and kidnapped her. He masquerades as a labour platform-trumpet named Cameron Shaw. You will find his disguise in the street, and you are likely to find him at some surgeon or hospital, with the marks of my knife on him.”"""										
"""I could only hope that Dr. Watson had taken in most of this, for my brother evidently had not. He responded in much the same way as before. “Enola?”"""										
"""Having done all I could for the interests of justice, I softened my  voice considerably. “My dear brother, please put your mind at ease concerning me. The day I took my cipher booklet out of your desk, did you by chance find a handkerchief belonging to me, wrapped around a slice of onion?”"""										
"""I wished to convince him, you see, that my weeping had been an actor’s performance. To reassure him."""										
"""But he seemed not to follow my meaning at all. He only leaned towards me, his alabaster features vibrant with barely constrained emotion. “Enola, you must be sensible. You cannot continue in this foolish fashion, alone, unguided, wayward!”"""										
"""Dr. Watson, gawking, seemed about to say something – as I dreaded that he should – but a movement and a groan from Lady Cecily claimed his attention."""										
She would recover. With a pang my heart let go of hopes for her										
friendship; I had to settle for knowing she was safe now.  And hoping that she would eventually find freedom. As I had.										
"""“Sherlock,” I told my brother earnestly and quietly, “I am doing very well on my own, thank you.”"""										
"""“Do you mean to tell me you are all right?” “Quite so. Although,” I remarked, “a bit worried"""										
"""about our mother, as I have not yet heard from her in response to my most recent message.”"""										
"""“Tell me where she is, then, and I will find her!” Ah! He did not, after all, know everything!"""										
"""I replied, “Such would not be her wish, no matter what extremity.”"" ""“And you, Enola? You insist on following her willful example? You shall come to harm!”"""										
"""“My dear Sherlock,” I told him almost tenderly, although I still held my dagger at the ready to keep him from approaching me, “the greatest harm I could possibly suffer would be to lose my liberty, to be forced into a conventional life of domestic duties and matrimony.”"""										
“You cannot possibly mean that. Every decent										
woman’s calling is to take her proper place in society.” He stepped towards me.										
"""I stopped him with a gesture of my weapon. “No nearer, I warn you.” In fact I could never have hurt him, but he knew me so imperfectly that he halted."""										
"""“I cannot believe a word you are saying, my dear sister,” he all but begged. “Let me see your face.”"""										
"""It was little enough for him to ask, but I could not allow it; Dr.  Watson might recognise Ivy Meshle in me. “No.” In the same moment I realised it was a ploy to take my attention away from my weapon; one uses two hands to raise a veil. “No, my oh-so-clever brother, I think not.” Still, my voice remained gentle; I hoped he could hear in its tone my affection for him. “I am going now. Please convey my good wishes to our brother Mycroft – ”"""										
"""A considerable thumping commotion sounded behind me. At once, lowering  my knife to hide it in the folds of my mantle, I turned and sped out of the library, just as the parlour-maid and a constable blundered in at the front door."""										
"""“Stop her!” my brother cried, but the parlour-maid, quite excited, was tugging the constable towards where Lady Cecily lay, and before Sherlock Holmes could shout again, I had darted out of the door, running down the street."""										
"""“Stop her!” My brother’s voice rang like a bugle in the night. I heard pursuit behind me, the constable’s thudding footfalls and my brother’s lighter, longer stride."""										
"""Like a hunted animal I leapt an iron railing and thumped down into a servants’ basement area. Fleeing for my very life – loss of freedom would have killed me – I sped out the back way and so into the maze of tool- sheds, workshops, and animal pens behind the houses. As I paused inside a carriage house to catch both my breath and my wits, I heard my brother speaking with the constable; then heard the latter halt at the call box  on the street corner."""										
"""Oh, how lovely. Within moments he would have every police-man in London on the lookout for me."""										
"""“Bring me a lantern,” my brother’s commanding voice ordered someone."										
"“She can’t have gone far.”"""										
"""I ran out of the other end of the carriage house and onward, blindly, my thoughts frantic, despairing: Sherlock Holmes would search every horsestall, every cowshed, every shadow in the mews, while on the streets police patrolled; there was no place to hide."""										
"""My black mantle, my cowl and veil, my habit – they marked me, now and"										
"forevermore; I had to get rid of them."""										
But then what? Run home in my red flannel underpinnings?										
"""In order to change my appearance and elude the pursuit, I needed a refuge."""										
"""But where could I go, with every man’s hand turned"" against me?"										
"""And every woman’s hand at the mercy of a man’s? As I had chosen not to accept the lot of other girls – would it always be like this? Running, hiding, dodging,"""										
"""disguised? Enola, alone?"""										
"""I did not allow myself to answer that question, forcing myself to think instead of what to do for the moment, as I emerged onto a cobbled thoroughfare and darted across it, recognising it as somewhere I had been before –"""										
Baker Street. Of course.										
"""My feet, apparently possessing more intelligence than my head, had carried me to the one place where my brother was least likely to search for me."""										
"""With energy born of new hope I sped towards number 221, then darted behind the house. In the small backyard, as I had noticed on my previous visit, stood a single tree of the obliging, knobby sort known as “London Plane.” Up its excellent trunk I swarmed with no trouble at all, and  after that it took only slight manoeuvering to climb onto the roof of the kitchen porch."""										
"""None too soon. As I sat, panting, two constables passed on opposite pavements of Baker Street, the one calling to the other, “Gel in a nun’s gear, Sergeant says.”"""										
"""“Wit a knife, wot I ’ear, an’ irrational,” replied the other. “ ’Ard to believe, but they say, dangerous.”"""										
"""“ ’Isteria,” said the other sagely. “Common affliction uv ’er sex.”"" I wondered whether that was what Sherlock thought of me. Irrational. Hysterical."										
"""Yes, it probably was."""										
"""After removing my boots so as to be more silent,"""										
"""I padded across the roof to the window I judged must lead to my brother’s chamber. Gently I tried it, and it opened quite easily; as I expected, it was not snibbed. My brother was, after all, still my mother’s son, and a healthful sleeper, one who let in the fresh air at night."""										
"""Slipping inside and closing the window behind me, already I was planning how I would search his wardrobe for something else to wear – I knew he kept many disguises. He had even at times passed"""										
"""himself off as an old woman. A skirt, a shawl, and a hat of some sort would be all I needed."""										
"""Then I would wait, and rest, until I heard the door opening downstairs before I slipped out again the way I had come."""										
"I knew I must never again disguise myself as the Sister of Charity. ""I wondered whether it would still be safe to disguise myself as Ivy"										
"Meshle. Perhaps not. Holmes and Watson would surely discuss the night’s events, and"""										
Watson might confess his visit to “Dr. Ragostin” now.  I wondered whether I would ever see Lady Cecily again. Probably not.										
The only way for me to be safe and free was to be – be what my name decreed me. Enola. Alone.										
"""As I placed fresh fuel on the hearth-fire of 221 Baker Street, I felt  all the pain of that thought, but also some solace: whether he knew it or not, and whether he liked it or not, my brother Sherlock was giving me such shelter as family might offer. He was giving me refuge."""										
"""STILL IN THE CHILL OF WINTER,"""										
"""FEBRUARY, 1889"""										
"""AT DAWN, THE GREAT DETECTIVE CLIMBS the"""										
"""stairs to his rooms, his step uncharacteristically leaden due to the fatigue and frustration of hours spent searching for a black butterfly that had paused for a few moments almost within his grasp before disappearing into the night, gone like a spirit – but his sister is no spirit, confound everything; she is a mere skinny broomstick of a girl, unequipped with wings, and could not possibly have actually flown away from the stony face of London; wherever could she have got to? Why could he not find her?"""										
"""Head and shoulders bowed under the weight of his failure, he enters his lodging and closes the door behind him."""										
"""Odd. The sitting-room is quite warm, as if someone has been keeping the fire going all night. But that cannot be."""										
"""Yet it is. Glancing towards the hearth, he sees flames leaping merrily, and finds himself suddenly fully alert, for who – what intruder has entered here?"""										
"""But even as he turns up the gas to have a look about, he strongly suspects, indeed even in advance of proof he knows, and chagrin as keen as a stiletto blade stabs his heart; he clenches his fists to keep from cursing aloud. In the fireplace he sees a substantial amount of charred black fabric, formerly a “nun’s habit,” no doubt. He can expect to find some garments missing from his supply of disguises. His oh-so-clever sister has made her escape after spending the night hiding in his own rooms, the one place he had not thought to look for her."""										
"""“The nerve of the girl!” he whispers between teeth set edge to edge. “The impudence, the effrontery, the sheer, unmitigated daring of her!” But as he glares at the evidence that, once again, his sister has outsmarted him, his hands relax along with his mouth, his thin lips twitch into a smile, and he begins heartily and almost joyously to laugh."""										
The following appears in the personal columns of the Pall Mall Gazette and other periodicals:										
"""“Attention my Chrysanthemum: the second letter of innocence, twice the sixth of defiance; also its third and fourth; the second and third of departure and twice the sixth of defiance again. You? Your Ivy.”"""										
"""The sender judges it safe to use this code – referring quite simply to the daisy, the thistle, and the sweet pea – because on the desk of her beloved adversary – her brother – she has seen a paper"""										
bearing puzzled notations:										
"??? true love Purity Thoughts Innocence Fidelity Departure ""EITOF P or A, D, or E??"""										
How astonishing that the great detective has not										
"""broken this particular code, which to the girl seems the simplest! Yet if he had understood it, would he not be hot on the hunt for Gypsies, instead of lollygagging in London?"""										
"""So she sends her message, ALL IS WELL, because she has guessed – she hopes she has guessed correctly – why she has not heard from her mother."" ""The establishment of Dr. Ragostin, Scientific Perditorian, is Closed Until Further Notice – that is, until “Dr. Ragostin” can decide whether  it is safe to go on. She wishes she could spend her now-free time helping the destitute street-dwellers of the East End, but she knows who will be watching for her there, even in the daytime. Consequently, until her bruised face has healed and also until she can think what she will do next, she keeps to her lodgings."""										
"""She sees nothing in the newspapers of Lady Cecily, for that affair is well hushed up. Of Alexander Finch, she sees only a few lines in the criminal docket, reporting his arrest on the charge of assault with intent to murder."""										
"""But the periodicals do not remain entirely devoid of interest. Within a"										
"few days, this remarkable communication appears in the “agony columns” of the Times, the Morning Post, the Evening Standard, and, indeed, all  the daily newspapers:"""										
“To E.H.: Please be reasonable. Amnesty promised on our family honour; no questions asked. Please contact. S.H. & M.H.”										
It does not take the intended reader long to pen a										
"""reply and post it to the Times, et cetera. It appears the next day:"""										
“To S.H. & M.H.: Rot. E.H.”										
"""If any decent woman’s calling consisted of taking her proper place in society (husband and house, plus voice lessons and a piano in the drawing-room), then this particular woman-to-be prefers to remain indecent. Or, more accurately speaking, a disgrace to her family."""										
"""A few days afterward, she finds this interesting"""										
message in the Pall Mall Gazette’s personal columns: “llatdn at sdlu owu oy wen kIeni vgnig nilcato nytil edif.”										
The youthful recipient deciphers this easily by  reading it backwards while ignoring the spacing of the										
"""“words.” It affirms that her guess is correct as to why her mother did not answer her earlier plea: Mum will not, or can not, come to her rescue. Ever. Yet Mum cannot directly refuse such an appeal. Therefore, silence was the only response that eccentric old woman had been able to muster."""										
Until now.										
"""Smiling ruefully, the reader hears in the printed words a voice that had often told her, as a child, much the same:"""										
“Fidelity not a clinging vine I knew you would stand tall.”										
"""In other words, “Daughter, I knew you would do quite well on your own.”"" All is well?"										
I am a liar. All is not well. Not at all.										
"""But, decides the girl named for solitude, it will be. Someday."" Because she will attend to it."										
Turn the page for a preview										
of the next book in the ENOLA HOLMES series . . .										
"The case of the Bizarre Bouquets ""MARCH, 1889"""										
"""LUNATICS HAVE NO COMMON SENSE, THINKS"""										
"""THE matron, but then, that’s what deranges the faculties, isn’t it, lack of common sense? Take this new inmate now: If he had any sense, he would be exercising with the others in the airing yard on this beautiful sunny day, the first fine day of spring; he’d be following directions (“Stand  up straight! Breathe deeply! Lift your eyes and contemplate the glories  of the firmament! Now, march! Left foot first, ONE-TWO- THREE-FOUR!”) and he’d be doing himself some good, but instead –"""										
"""“Let me out,” he demands for perhaps the"""										
"""hundredth time. “I am an Englishman! Such treatment of a British citizen simply cannot be tolerated.” While his tone is angry, he doesn’t curse, she’ll give him that; even at his worst, when he fought with the  keepers, when he blackened the director’s eye, even then he hadn’t  cursed. Nor does he now, only complaining vehemently, “Let me out. I demand my rights as a loyal subject of the queen. Let me out of this confounded coffin, I say!”"""										
"""“It’s not a coffin, Mr. Kippersalt.” Sitting in a comfortless wooden chair, cushioned only by her own amplitude while in her lap she knits a sock, the matron speaks in a bored but soothing tone. “The top and bottom resemble those of a coffin, perhaps, but you know quite well that a  coffin would not have spindlework all up and down the sides so you can breathe and I can see that you are not in any difficulties – ”"""										
"""“Not in any difficulties?” Unexpectedly the man lying in the confines of the restraining box starts to laugh. At the sound of his laughter the"										
"matron drops a stitch, frowns, and lays her knitting aside, reaching for"										
"paper and pencil instead."""										
“Not in any difficulties in this fiendish device?” the man cries amidst unnaturally high-pitched yowls of laughter.										
"""“You do not appear to be physically indisposed,” answers the matron with gentle dignity, “and you are lying on a clean pallet, and you can change your position, move your hands. Certainly the crib is preferable to a strait-jacket.”"""										
"""“A crib! Is that what it’s called!” The man is still laughing for no good reason. The matron watches him narrowly, knowing she must take care with him; he was quite unexpectedly quick for such a stocky fellow, and resourceful, too. He very nearly made it to the fence."""										
In Mr. Kippersalt’s barely started casebook she										
"""writes the date and time, then, Patient laughing in apparent hysteria. Earlier notations state that Mr. Kippersalt most strenuously resisted putting on his"""										
grey woollen uniform while his own things were taken										
"""away for safekeeping; that he has refused food; that his urine is light and clear, he moves his bowels appropriately, and he seems to be of a cleanly nature; that he shows no deformity of the head, trunk, or limbs; that he exhibits intelligence of a sort, and that he uses a  handkerchief."""										
"""“A crib, as in, cheating me of my freedom?” The man’s unnerving laughter is quietening. Not a bad- looking man of middle age, a soldierly type, he strokes his moustache with his fingers as if to calm himself, or to  think. “When are you going to let me out?”"""										
"""“After the doctor has looked you over.” After first administering  chloral hydrate, the matron feels sure. Himself an addict to laudanum and the like, the asylum’s doctor troubles himself little with the inmates other than to medicate them."""										
“Doctor? I am a doctor!” The newly committed lunatic starts once again to howl with laughter.										
"""The matron writes, Persists in his grandiose delusions. Setting the casebook aside, she takes up her knitting again. Trying to turn the heel of a sock can be most vexing, but that’s the way things are when"""										
"""one is married to the director of a lunatic asylum: always seven things to do at once, never a quiet moment to simply rest one’s soul, go for a walk or look at a newspaper. The nurses require as much"""										
"""supervision as the patients do; Florence Nightingale’s influence has not extended here, and the help is illiterate at best, if not in the grip of some vice, usually drink."""										
"""The matron sighs. Trying to pick up the stitch she dropped, she cannot keep a slight edge from creeping into her voice as she replies, “A doctor? That‘s not true, Mr. Kippersalt. Your documents of admission clearly state that you are a shopkeeper.”"""										
“My name is not Kippersalt! I am not the person you say I am! Why can I not make anyone at this hellish place understand that I am here because of some absurd misapprehension?”										
"""Feeling the man watching her from the coffinlike box in which he lies, the matron smiles, albeit wearily. “In my experience of the past thirty years, Mr."""										
"""Kippersalt, patients very often believe a mistake has been made, but it has never been so.” How could it be, when such considerable sums of money have changed hands? “Take gentlemen like you, now. A number have come  here declaring themselves to be Napoleon – that’s the most frequent, but we’ve had a Prince Albert, a Sir Walter Drake and a William Shakespeare – ”"""										
“I’m telling you the truth!”										
"""“ – and some of those poor distracted minds are eventually cured,” the"										
"matron speaks on, ignoring the interruption, “but some of them remain here yet. Is that"""										
"""what you want, Mr. Kippersalt? To remain here for the"" rest of your life?”"										
“My name is not Kippersalt! It’s Watson!” Even through the spindles she can see his moustache bristling.										
"""With kindly whimsy she retorts, “We have a Sherlock Holmes in one of the other wards. I wonder whether he would care to vouch for you.”"""										
"""“You are mad! I tell you, I am John Watson, medical doctor and author! All you have to do is telephone Scotland Yard – ”"""										
Telephone? As if anyone this far north of London City has ever seen or used such a come-lately contraption? Just call Scotland Yard? Grandiose delusions again.										
"“ – and ask for Inspector Lestrade. He will confirm my identity – ” ""“Nonsense,” the matron murmurs. “Nonsense.” He really thinks the director will make inquiries, give back a considerable fee and turn him loose? The man is raving. “Shush now. Shhh.” As if trying to calm a child, she murmurs to him, concerned; such passion might lead to brain fever if it does not soon abate. It has been two days now and Mr."										
"Kippersalt is still ranting just as irrationally as he was when they brought him in. A sad case, really. The matron has dealt with many lunatics, but she feels particularly sorry for this one, because he seems as if he might have so much good in him if he were in his right mind."" CHAPTER THE FIRST"										
IT IS DIFFICULT TO CHOOSE A NEW NAME FOR										
"""oneself. Even more difficult, I imagine, than choosing a name for a child, for one is confusingly intimate with oneself, whereas one is barely acquainted with a baby upon its arrival. Some artistic whim, surely, had caused Mum to name me “Enola,” which, backwards, spells alone."""										
Do not think about Mum.										
"""Although the large bruise on my face had faded, the even larger one upon my feelings had not. Thus I remained in my lodging on the first fine, sunny day in March, 1889. With paper and pencil in hand, I sat at my open window (how welcome is fresh air – even the London variety – after a long winter!) looking out over the seething East End street. The scene below had attracted my attention: Due to a quantity of mutton still on the hoof passing through, all manner of vehicles, including coal-wagons, donkey- carts and costermonger’s barrows, had locked shafts; I could hear the drivers shouting the most frightful oaths at one another. Red-coated  army recruiters and other idlers looked on, grinning, while a blind  beggar led by a ragged child tried to get past the jam, street urchins climbed lampposts to stare and jeer, and women in sooty shawls hurried on their errands."""										
"""They – the sorely overworked women of the slums – unlike me, had somewhere to go."""										
"""Looking down on the paper in my lap, I found that I had written:"""										
Enola Holmes										
"""Hastily and heavily I crossed out this, my very own"""										
"""name, the one I absolutely could not use. My brothers Mycroft and Sherlock, you see, must not find me, for they quite wanted to take charge of me and transform me, via singing lessons and similar vapours, into an ornament for genteel society. Which, legally, they could do. Force me into boarding school, I mean. Or into a convent, an orphanage, a Young Ladies’ Academy of Porcelain Painting, wherever they chose. Legally, Mycroft, the elder, could even have me locked up for life in an insane asylum. Such confinement required only the signature of two medical doctors, one of whom would be the “mad doctor” who quite wanted money to"										
"run the place. Those, and the signature of Mycroft himself – any scheme"										
"to deprive me of my freedom I would not put beyond him."" I wrote:"										
Ivy Meshle										
The name I had used during the six months I had										
"""been a fugitive, on my own. “Ivy” for fidelity, “Meshle” a play on “Holmes” – Hol mes, mes Hol, Meshle – and I liked that name; I really wished I could keep it. But I was afraid – I had discovered that Sherlock knew I used Ivy as a code name when communicating with Mum through the newspaper personal columns."""										
"""What else did my oh-so-clever brother Sherlock – the one who, as opposed to the large and sessile Mycroft, was actually on the hunt for me – what did Sherlock know about me? What had he learned in the course of our most irregular dealings?"""										
I wrote:										
He knows I look like him. He knows I climb trees. He knows I ride a bicycle.										
He knowsI disguised myself as a widow. He knows I disguised myself as a poor woman selling pen-wipers.										
He knows I disguised myself as a nun. He knows I gave food and blankets to the poor.										
He knows I carry a dagger in my corset. He knows I have located two missing persons.										
He knows I have put the police onto two villains.										
He knows I have twice invaded his Baker Street rooms. He knows I use the name Ivy.										
"One must assume that he nowknows from Dr. Watson that a young woman named Ivy Meshle worked for the world’s first and only Scientific Perditorian. ""I sighed at this last, for I quite admired Dr. Watson,"""										
"""although I had encountered the good physician only three times: the  first when he had come to consult the Perditorian – a professional seeker of missing persons – for the sake of his friend Sherlock Holmes; the second when I had gone to ask him a question and he had given me a  bromide for a headache; the third when I had thrust an injured lady upon his care. Dr. Watson was the epitome of a gallant, sturdy English gentleman, willing to help anyone. I liked him tremendously, almost as much as I liked my brother – for, despite everything, I did adore Sherlock, although I knew him mainly through the very popular stories his friend Watson wrote about him, which I read as avidly as anyone in England."""										
"""Why, why did those for whom I cared always seem to prove my undoing?"" ""Sighing, I pressed my lips together and drew"""										
"""several heavy pencil lines crossing out Ivy Meshle. What, then?"""										
It was not just choosing a new name that baffled me; it was the all- encompassing problem of what to										
"""do and whom to be. Within what sort of woman should I next hide myself? A commoner, Mary or Susan?"""										
"""How dull. Yet the flower names I loved, such as Rosemary, symbol of remembrance, or Violet, symbol of hidden beauty and virtue, were out of the question, for Sherlock knew about the code Mother and I used."""										
"""Nor could I fall back upon one of my middle names; I had, of course, the usual gentrified quota of them, being christened Enola Eudoria Hadassah Holmes. Enola E. H. Holmes – E.E.H.H. Eehh. Just the way I felt. Hadassah being my father’s deceased sister’s name, which Sherlock would instantly recognise, and Eudoria, even worse, being my mother’s given name."""										
Not that I cared in any way to style myself after my mother. Or did I?										
"""“Curses! Ye gods,” I muttered naughtily, writing down"""										
Violet Vernet										
"""Vernet being my mother’s maiden name, which,"""										
"""again, Sherlock Holmes would recognise at once. But perhaps backwards?"""										
Tenrev										
"""Well, no. But if I played with the letters a bit?"" Netver Never Every Ever"										
Ever what? Ever alone? Ever forlorn?										
"""Ever defiant, I told myself sternly. Ever to go on being – what I am. A rebel, a dreamer, and a perditorian, finder of the lost. It occurred to me that, as a step in that direction, in order to hear news that did not reach print, I ought to try to find a position with some Fleet Street publication –"""										
"""Coincidentally, as I thought this I heard my landlady’s tortoise-like tread upon the stairs. “Newspapers, Miss Meshle!” she bellowed even before she had reached the landing. Being as deaf as a turnip, Mrs."										
"Tupper seemed to find it necessary to make a great deal of noise."""										
"""As I stood up, crossed my room and threw everything I had written into the fire, she knocked hard"""										
"""enough to crack walnuts. “Newspapers, Miss"""										
Meshle!” she shouted into my face just as I opened the door.										
"""“Thank you, Mrs. Tupper.” She couldn’t hear me, of course, but she could see my lips move in what I hoped was a smile as I took the papers from  her hands."""										
"""However, she did not then go away. Instead, she straightened her short, hunched form to its limit and fixed me with her watery gaze. “Miss Meshle,” she declaimed with the bravado of one who has decided to perform a Moral Duty, “it’s no good yer shuttin’ yerself up this way. Now  whatever ’appened, and it’s none of my business, but whatever it was,  it’s no use gittin’ pale about. Now, it’s a nice day out, wit’ a bit uv sun and startin’ to feel springish. Now whyn’t you git yer bonnet on an’ go out for a walk, at least – ”"""										
"""Or I believe she said something of the sort. I barely heard her, and I am sorry to say I shut the door in her face, for my gaze had caught upon the Daily Telegraph’s headline and fixed there."""										
It said:										
SHERLOCK HOLMES ASSOCIATE										
MYSTERIOUSLY DISAPPEARS DR. WATSON’S WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN										
###										
"""APRIL, 1889"""										
"""MARCH, 1889"""										
"""LUNATICS HAVE NO COMMON SENSE, THINKS THE matron, but then, that’s what deranges the"""										
"""faculties, isn’t it, lack of common sense? Take this new inmate now: If he had any sense, he would be exercising with the others in the airing yard on this beautiful sunny day, the first fine day of spring; he’d be following directions (“Stand up straight! Breathe deeply! Lift your eyes and contemplate the glories of the firmament! Now, march! Left foot first, ONE-two-three-four!”) and he’d be doing himself some good, but instead—"""										
"""“Let me out,” he demands for perhaps the hundredth time. “I"""										
"""am an Englishman! Such treatment of a British citizen simply cannot be tolerated.” While his tone is angry, he doesn’t curse, she’ll give him that; even at his worst, when he fought with the keepers, when he blackened the director’s eye, even then he hadn’t cursed. Nor does he now, only complaining vehemently, “Let me out. I demand my rights as a loyal subject of the queen. Let me out of this confounded coffin, I say!”"""										
"""“It’s not a coffin, Mr. Kippersalt.” Sitting in a comfortless""    ""wooden chair, cushioned only by her own amplitude while in her lap she knits a sock, the matron speaks in a bored but soothing tone. “The top and bottom resemble those of a coffin, perhaps, but you know quite well"										
"that a coffin would not have spindlework all up and down the sides so you can breathe and I can see that you are not in any difficulties—”"""										
"“Not in any difficulties?” Unexpectedly the man lying in the  ""confines of the restraining box starts to laugh. At the sound of his"										
"laughter the matron drops a stitch, frowns, and lays her knitting aside, reaching for paper and pencil instead."""										
“Not in any difficulties in this fiendish device?” the man cries amidst unnaturally high-pitched yowls of laughter.										
"""“You do not appear to be physically indisposed,” answers the""    ""matron with gentle dignity, “and you are lying on a clean pallet, and you can change your position, move your hands. Certainly the crib is preferable to a strait-jacket.”"""										
“A crib! Is that what it’s called!” The man is still laughing for										
"""no good reason. The matron watches him narrowly, knowing she must take care with him; he  was quite unexpectedly quick for  such a stocky fellow, and"""										
"""resourceful, too. He very nearly made it to the fence."""										
In Mr. Kippersalt’s barely started casebook she writes the date										
"""and time, then, Patient laughing in apparent hysteria. Earlier notations state that Mr. Kippersalt most strenuously resisted putting on his grey woollen uniform while his own things were taken away for safekeeping;  that he has refused food; that his urine is light and clear, he moves his bowels appropriately, and he seems to be of a cleanly nature; that he shows no deformity of the head, trunk, or limbs; that he exhibits intelligence of a sort, and that he uses a handkerchief."""										
"""“A crib,  as in,  cheating me of my freedom?”  The  man’s"" ""unnerving laughter is quietening. Not a bad-looking man of middle age, a soldierly type, he strokes his moustache with his fingers as if to calm himself, or to think. “When are you going to let me out?”"""										
"“After  the  doctor  has  looked  you  over.”  After  first ""administering chloral hydrate, the matron feels sure. Himself an addict to laudanum and the like, the asylum’s doctor troubles himself little with the inmates other than to medicate them."""										
“Doctor? I am a doctor!” The newly committed lunatic starts once again to howl with laughter.										
"""The matron writes, Persists in his grandiose delusions. Setting"""										
"""the casebook aside, she takes up her knitting again. Trying to turn the"										
"heel of a sock can be most vexing, but that’s the way things are when one is married to the director of a lunatic asylum: always seven things to do at once, never a quiet moment to simply rest one’s soul, go for a walk or look at a newspaper. The nurses require as much supervision as the patients do; Florence Nightingale’s influence has not extended here, and the help is illiterate at best, if not in the grip of some vice, usually drink."""										
"""The matron sighs. Trying to pick up the stitch she dropped, she"" ""cannot keep a slight edge from creeping into her voice as she replies, “A doctor? That‘s not true, Mr. Kippersalt. Your documents of admission clearly state that you are a shopkeeper.”"""										
“My name is not Kippersalt! I am not the person you say I am!										
Why can I not make anyone at this hellish place understand that I am here because of some absurd misapprehension?”										
Feeling the man watching her from the coffin-like box in which										
"""he lies, the matron smiles, albeit wearily. “In my experience of the past thirty years, Mr. Kippersalt, patients very often believe a mistake has been made, but it has never been so.” How could it be, when such considerable sums of money have changed hands? “Take gentlemen like you, now. A number have come here declaring themselves to be Napoleon—that’s the most frequent, but we’ve had a Prince Albert, a Sir Walter Drake and a William Shakespeare—”"""										
“I’m telling you the truth!”										
“—and some of those poor distracted minds are eventually										
"""cured,” the matron speaks on, ignoring the interruption, “but some of them remain here yet. Is that what you want, Mr. Kippersalt? To remain here for the rest of your life?”"""										
“My name is not Kippersalt! It’s Watson!” Even through the spindles she can see his moustache bristling.										
"""With kindly whimsy she retorts, “We have a Sherlock Holmes"""										
in one of the other wards. I wonder whether he would care to vouch for you.”										
"""“You are mad! I tell you, I am John Watson, medical doctor"" and author! All you have to do is telephone Scotland Yard—”"										
Telephone? As if anyone this far north of London City has ever										
seen or used such a come-lately contraption? Just call Scotland Yard? Grandiose delusions again.										
“—and ask for Inspector Lestrade. He will confirm my identity										
—”										
"""“Nonsense,”  the matron  murmurs.  “Nonsense.”  He  really"""										
"""thinks the director will make inquiries, give back a considerable fee  and turn him loose? The man is raving. “Shush now. Shhh.” As if trying to calm a child, she murmurs to him, concerned; such passion might lead to brain fever if it does not soon abate. It has been two days now and Mr."										
"Kippersalt is still ranting just as irrationally as he was when they brought him in. A sad case, really. The matron has dealt with many lunatics, but she feels particularly sorry for this one, because he seems as if he might have so much good in him if he were in his right mind."""										
CHAPTER THE FIRST										
"""IT IS DIFFICULT TO CHOOSE A NEW NAME FOR oneself. Even more difficult, I imagine, than"""										
"""choosing a name for a child, for one is confusingly intimate with oneself, whereas one is barely acquainted with a baby upon its arrival. Some artistic whim, surely, had caused Mum to name me “Enola,” which, backwards, spells alone."""										
Do not think about Mum.										
"""Although the large bruise on my face had faded, the even larger"""										
"""one upon my feelings had not. Thus I remained in my lodging on the first"										
"fine, sunny day in March, 1889. With paper and pencil in hand, I sat at  my open window (how welcome is fresh air—even the London variety—after a long winter!) looking out over the seething East End street. The scene below had attracted my attention: Due to a quantity of mutton still on  the hoof passing through, all manner of vehicles, including coal-wagons, donkey-carts and costermonger’s barrows, had locked shafts; I could hear the drivers shouting the most frightful oaths at one another. Red-coated army recruiters and other idlers looked on, grinning, while a blind  beggar led by a ragged child tried to get past the jam, street urchins climbed lampposts to stare and jeer, and women in sooty shawls hurried on their errands."""										
"They—the sorely overworked women of the slums—unlike ""me, had somewhere to go."""										
written:										
"""Looking down on the paper in my lap, I found that I had"""										
Enola Holmes										
"""Hastily and heavily I crossed out this, my very own name, the"""										
"""one I absolutely could not use. My brothers Mycroft and Sherlock, you see, must not find me, for they quite wanted to take charge of me and transform me, via"""										
"""singing lessons and similar vapours, into an ornament for genteel society. Which,"""										
"""legally, they could do. Force me into boarding school, I mean. Or into a convent, an orphanage, a Young Ladies’ Academy of Porcelain Painting, wherever they chose. Legally, Mycroft, the elder, could even have me locked up for life in an insane asylum. Such confinement required only  the signature of two medical doctors, one of whom would be the “mad doctor” who quite wanted money to run the place. Those, and the signature of Mycroft himself—any scheme to deprive me of my freedom I would not put beyond him."""										
I wrote: Ivy Meshle										
The name I had used during the six months I had been a										
"""fugitive, on my own. “Ivy” for fidelity, “Meshle” a play on “Holmes”—Hol mes, mes Hol, Meshle—and I liked that name; I really wished I could keep it. But I was afraid—I had discovered that Sherlock knew I used Ivy as a code name when communicating with Mum through the newspaper personal columns."""										
"""What else did my oh-so-clever brother Sherlock—the one who,"""										
"""as opposed to the large and sessile Mycroft, was actually on the hunt for me— what did Sherlock know about me? What had he learned in the course of our most irregular dealings?"""										
I wrote:										
He knows I look like him. He knows I climb trees.										
He knows I ride a bicycle. He knows I disguised myself as a widow.										
He  knows  I  disguised										
myself as a poor woman selling pen-wipers.										
He  knows  I  disguised myself as a nun.										
He knows I gave food and blankets to the poor.										
He  knows  I  carry  a dagger in my corset.										
He knows I have located two missing persons.										
He knows I have put the										
police onto two villains.										
He knows I have  twice invaded his Baker Street rooms. He knows I use the name										
Ivy.										
One must assume that he										
now knows from Dr. Watson that a young woman named Ivy Meshle worked for the world’s first and only Scientific Perditorian.										
"""I sighed at this last, for I quite admired Dr. Watson, although I""  ""had encountered the good physician only three times: the first when he had come to consult the Perditorian—a professional seeker of missing"										
"persons—for the sake of his friend Sherlock Holmes; the second when I had gone to ask him a question and he had given me a bromide for a headache; the third when I had thrust an injured lady upon his care. Dr. Watson was the epitome of a gallant, sturdy English gentleman, willing to help anyone. I liked him tremendously, almost as much as I liked my brother— for, despite everything, I did adore Sherlock, although I knew him mainly through the very popular stories his friend Watson wrote about him, which I read as avidly as anyone in England."""										
my undoing?										
"""Why, why did those for whom I cared always seem to prove"" ""Sighing, I pressed my lips together and drew several heavy"" pencil lines crossing out Ivy Meshle."										
"""What, then?"""										
It was not just choosing a new name that baffled me; it was the										
"""all-encompassing problem of what to do and whom to be. Within what sort of woman should I next hide myself? A commoner, Mary or Susan? How dull. Yet the flower names I loved, such as Rosemary, symbol of remembrance, or Violet, symbol of hidden beauty and virtue, were out of the question, for Sherlock knew about the code Mother and I used."""										
"""Nor could I fall back upon one of my middle names; I had, of"" ""course, the usual gentrified quota of them, being christened Enola"										
"Eudoria Hadassah Holmes. Enola E. H. Holmes—E.E.H.H. Eehh. Just the way I felt. Hadassah being my father’s deceased sister’s name, which Sherlock would instantly recognise, and Eudoria, even worse, being my mother’s given name."""										
Not that I cared in any way to style myself after my mother. Or did I?										
"""“Curses! Ye gods,” I muttered naughtily, writing down"""										
Violet Vernet										
"""Vernet being  my mother’s maiden name, which, again,"" Sherlock Holmes would recognise at once. But perhaps backwards?"										
Tenrev										
"""Well, no. But if I played with the letters a bit?"" Netver"										
Never Every Ever										
Ever what? Ever alone? Ever forlorn?										
"""Ever defiant, I told myself sternly. Ever to go on being—what I"" ""am. A rebel, a dreamer, and a perditorian, finder of the lost. It"										
"occurred to me that, as a step in that direction, in order to hear news that did not reach print, I ought to try to find a position with some Fleet Street publication—"""										
"""Coincidentally, as I thought this I heard my landlady’s tortoise-""  ""like tread upon the stairs. “Newspapers, Miss Meshle!” she bellowed even before she had reached the landing. Being as deaf as a turnip, Mrs. Tupper seemed to find it necessary to make a great deal of noise."""										
"""As I stood up, crossed my room and threw everything I had"""										
"""written into the fire, she knocked hard enough to crack walnuts. “Newspapers, Miss Meshle!” she shouted into my face just as I opened the door."""										
"""“Thank you, Mrs. Tupper.” She couldn’t hear me, of course,"""										
but she could see my lips move in what I hoped was a smile as I took the papers from her hands.										
"""However, she did not then go away. Instead, she straightened"""										
"""her short, hunched form to its limit and fixed me with her watery gaze. “Miss Meshle,” she declaimed with the bravado of one who has decided to perform a Moral Duty, “it’s no good yer shuttin’ yerself up this way. Now whatever ’appened, and it’s none of my business, but whatever it was,  it’s no use gittin’ pale about. Now, it’s a nice day out, wit’ a bit uv sun and startin’ to feel springish. Now whyn’t you git yer bonnet on an’ go out for a walk, at least—”"""										
"""Or I believe she said something of the sort. I barely heard her,"" ""and I am sorry to say I shut the door in her face, for my gaze had caught upon the Daily Telegraph’s headline and fixed there."""										
It said:										
SHERLOCK HOLMES ASSOCIATE MYSTERIOUSLY DISAPPEARS DR. WATSON’S WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN										
CHAPTER THE SECOND										
"""NOT PAUSING EVEN TO TAKE A SEAT, BUT STANDING where I was, with the"										
"skirt of my cheap"""										
"""cotton at-home dress nearly in the fire, I read:"""										
Events sure to send a frisson of horror through any spine with delicacy of										
"""feeling have unfolded in Bloomsbury, with implications taking in the whole of London, if a missing British gentleman is not soon found. Dr. John Watson, a respected physician perhaps best known as companion of,  and chronicler of the adventures of, the famous detective Mr. Sherlock Holmes, has most mystifyingly disappeared without a trace. Foremost among the thoughts of the absent man’s family and friends, of course, is terror lest he might have fallen into the hands of some criminal enemy of Mr."										
"Sherlock Holmes, to be used as a pawn in some nefarious scheme, bandied  as a hostage, or dispatched for the sake of revenge. Alternatively, concern has been expressed that, carrying his black bag identifying him  as a physician, he might have been attacked by an anti-vaccination mob in the East End. No form of foul play at this time may be ruled out."										
"Attempts are being made to trace Dr. Watson’s movements this Wednesday last, on which day he departed to perform customary calls and errands but failed to return to his home and business in the evening. Cab-drivers are being questioned…"""										
"""And so  forth, a  great many words to describe, essentially,"" ""nothing. An absence not newsworthy at all if it were not that my brother’s name could be deployed in the headline. Dr. Watson had kissed his wife good-bye on Wednesday morning; this was Friday afternoon—the  good doctor had been gone for two days. I imagined the police were  saying, with some justification, that any number of harmless events might have caused the doctor’s absence, and at any moment a telegram or letter should arrive explaining where and why he had been detained. “Attempts are being made” meant that the police were not  yet"" investigating; otherwise the newspaper would have named the inspector in"										
"""charge. No, at this point the only people really trying to locate Dr. Watson were two: his wife and his friend, my brother Sherlock Holmes."" And now one more: me."										
But wait. What if Watson’s absence had been arranged by my brother as a scheme to entrap me?										
Sherlock knew  that I  had embroiled  myself in  two cases  of										
"""missing persons. And while he might not understand that I had invented"										
"Dr. Leslie Ragostin, Scientific Perditorian, quite possibly he knew I had worked for the man. Did he appreciate that this was my life’s calling, to be a finder of the lost?"""										
Did he guess how very fond I was of the fatherly Dr. Watson? suspicion?										
"""Should I not, then, regard recent developments with the utmost"" But even as these eminently sensible considerations traversed  ""my mind, already I was throwing the newspaper on the fire, then"										
"rummaging in my wardrobe, considering possible ways to disguise myself, possible strategies to find out the details of Dr. Watson’s disappearance, how best to approach the matter. Indeed, a strait-jacket could not have stopped me."""										
Although I knew I would have to be very careful.										
Which presented some difficulty. Having spent the better part										
"""of the past month closeted in my lodging, bitter over my mother’s  failure to help me in my time of need—having been, in other words, idle and sulking—I now found myself woefully unprepared for action. There were a dozen items I required but did not have."""										
"""Wrapping a nondescript shawl around my head and shoulders, I"""										
sallied forth to acquire them. Mrs. Tupper would be pleased; I was going for a walk.										
"""I did walk, all the way, because my emotions felt as tangled as the labyrinthine"""										
"""passages of the slums, my thoughts as crowded and confused as the smutty tenements with their peaked garrets looming over me, and a long walk  would perhaps help me compose my mind into some form of order."""										
"""My surroundings, however, did not promote serenity. A pieman"""										
"""cried, “’Ot meat tarts, two fer a penny!” while street urchins capered around him, mocking, “Puppies and kittens! Cats and rats!” meaning the probable meats in his pies, and a constable came frowning along to rout the lot of them for blocking traffic. While the day was indeed “springish,” as Mrs. Tupper had said, the warming weather had increased the stench of the tenement privies—each of which served perhaps two hundred of London’s Great Unwashed—and of the nearby Thames, and of the gas-works looming over the slums like a bloated shining caterpillar on steel legs, blighting everything beneath it."""										
"""Very well, I was perhaps failing to appreciate the beauty of the""     ""sunny day—a rarity in London, where clouds of smoke generally held sway no matter what the weather elsewhere—but truly, a hint of spring seemed only to increase the din and danger in the streets. I saw a district  nurse in her old- fashioned black bonnet, long coat and white apron  trying to make her way into a narrow court criss-crossed with clothes- lines of washing, while lounging men and street brats and even some women shouted curses, throwing mud and stones and horse droppings at her."" ""Brave  woman,  I  thought,  but  I  admit  that  my  next"" ""consideration, as I walked on, was whether a nurse’s garb might serve as a good disguise. Or perhaps the military-style black skirt and red jersey of one of General Booth’s Hallelujah Lassies? It seemed to me that people encountering someone in uniform observed the clothing, not the individual."""										
But Sherlock Holmes was no ordinary observer. Aware that I										
"""had masqueraded as a nun, he would be on the lookout for something else of the sort—a deaconess, a nanny, a nurse. No, I had to invent some disguise he could not possibly expect of me."""										
"""By now, blessedly, I had left the East End behind me. Instead"""										
"""of threading my way between tenements, I now walked pavements along wider, cobbled streets, and ahead of me loomed the dome of St. Paul’s, a Grecian- columned landmark that contrasted strangely, I thought, with the shiny steel gas-"""										
"""works just as tall, not to speak of the gargoyled Gothic steeples of"										
"other churches"""										
"""nearby. Or the square-towered, corniced Italianate residence I was just then passing. Most of London was such a hodgepodge, railroads and factories but also edifices French Second Empire and Moorish and Georgian and Regency, plus Tudor revival, or classical, revival this and revival that. A city uncertain, like me, of what appearance to present."""										
"""Here, even more so than in the East End, one saw all sorts of""  ""people. Well-dressed ladies shopped the haberdashers and milliners and perfumeries, moving briskly about their business so that they would not"										
"be mistaken for much-adorned “ladies” of a different sort loitering on the pavements. Shop-girls mounted with the agility of goats to the tops  of omnibuses, while visitors from the country gawked at everything: delivery boys on bicycles, bandbox-vendors with their wares on poles across their shoulders, chimney-sweeps trudging along as black as their brushes, ink-stained students carrying books, street musicians, gentlemen dressed in sober grey or black from head to toe, and “gents”—quite a different breed, “swell” dressers in search of amusement. My brothers had once hypothesised that I was masquerading as one of those."""										
Here came a short-haired woman in a billycock hat with a										
"""coachman cape, a stick in one gloveless hand, the leash of a bull terrier in the other—I am certain my brothers were afraid I was going to turn out even worse, perhaps puffing a cigar."""										
"""By now I was walking in the City itself, that is to say, the"""										
"""oldest part of London—one would think, London’s centre, but it was not so, not any more than the Tower was London’s centre, or Covent Garden, Piccadilly Circus or Trafalgar Square, or Bucking-ham Palace, or Westminster where the Houses of Parliament were. London had no more centre than one of Mrs. Tupper’s sheep’s-head stews did."""										
"Resisting any further comparison between the city’s confusion  ""and my own current state of mind, I made my way towards Holywell Street."""										
"""A narrow, winding, dirty thoroughfare that could not have been""     ""more ironically misnamed or misused, its picturesque, high-gabled old"										
"buildings were given over mostly to vendors of low publications and cheap photographic prints. However, I was not here to look at lithographs of young ladies exposing"""										
their petticoats and legs whilst lacing their Balmoral boots. I sought a vendor of										
"""a different sort. As far back as the time of Queen Elizabeth, Holywell Street had housed mercers, and echoes of that silk-and-fancy-textile  trade lingered on in the form of dealers in costume, finery, queer old clothing and the like, for masquerades. Wooden signs carved in the shape of masks grinned or grimaced down upon me most unpleasantly as I shouldered and elbowed my way through the crowded lane. Not only was Holywell Street itself quite ancient, crooked and narrow, but the print vendors’ tawdry wares overflowed their shops onto the pavements, reaching out for one. Indeed, as I struggled along, a winsome little girl no more than six years old plucked at my sleeve, offering to sell me what  appeared at first glance to be a pack of playing-cards. My second glance made me shudder and hasten onwards."""										
"""There. At last I saw, suspended from the overhanging eaves of"""										
"""a venerable lath-and-plaster building, a wooden sign which had likely been there as long as the structure itself. Carved in the shape of a rooster, it had to mark the shop for which I was searching."""										
CHAPTER THE THIRD										
"""I HAD FOUND OUT ABOUT IT DURING AN ADVENTURE worth mentioning. A few weeks earlier,"""										
"""you see, my brother Sherlock had very nearly caught me. But in the crucial few minutes while he was summoning the constabulary to scour the"										
"streets for me, I had found an unlikely refuge: 221b Baker Street, that"										
"is to say, Sherlock’s own lodgings, which I had entered by means of a plane-tree, a rooftop and a bedchamber window."""										
"""Ever since, I had wondered how my brother had reacted when,"" ""returning to his rooms at dawn, he had discovered my burnt cast-off nun’s habit in his grate and a few items missing from his wardrobe. I"										
"imagined he had felt utterly chagrinned. Oddly, this thought did not make me smile."""										
"""Now, if it had been Mycroft…"""										
"""Some other time, perhaps. As I was saying, hiding for several"""										
"""hours in Sherlock’s lodging while he hunted me throughout every lane and alley, mews and court in the area, I had put the time to good use by examining my brother’s possessions. That man had an entire cabinet full  of wigs and false beards and so on, but also accoutrements of disguise utterly new to me: face putty, stick-on warts and scars, dreadful (like ruined mediaeval battlements steeped in creosote) false teeth to cover  his own well-kept ones, skull-caps to make him look bald or partly so, skin pigments varying from ruddy to swarthy, various false fingernails (unkempt, or yellow, or ridged, or overlong as if in mourning), a glue-on device to change the shape of his mouth and give him the look of a harelip—altogether, my eyes were opened. Wide. Where had my brother acquired such uncommonly useful items?"""										
"""Searching his desk, then, I had found receipts from various""  ""shops, most of them in the theatre district and frankly intended to"										
"serve the needs of the stage—I hardly thought I could pass as an actress. But a few items several years ago had come from a shop in Holywell  Street. A shop called Chaunticleer’s."""										
"So I thought I would try there first. My brother  had not ""purchased anything at Chaunticleer’s in some time; perhaps the place had closed? But there was only one way to find out, and if the shop remained, excellent: My brother had taken his business elsewhere for whatever reasons, and I would be unlikely to encounter him."""										
"Chaunticleer’s: hence the sign carved in the shape of a rooster. ""Chaunticleer meant a rooster, just as Reynard meant a fox. Where the latter had come from I had no idea, but the former I had read in one of Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales."""										
Struggling  across   the  teeming  street—Holywell  always										
thronged with all manner of Londoners ogling the pictures in the windows of the print-shops—I elbowed my way towards my destination.										
"Or was it my destination after all? Standing under the wooden ""rooster—which had probably hung there since Shakespeare’s day—to catch my breath before entering, I saw that the red lettering painted over the open door read, simply and mysteriously, Pertelote’s."""										
Most peculiar.										
I went in to see what was what.										
"""Proceeding cautiously, I cast my glance anxiously about me,"""										
"""but neither of my brothers pounced from the shadows to seize me; indeed, the shop seemed empty. Racks of sheet music flanked the doorway, some  used books had collected in a corner, and the bins and counters displayed an interesting variety of wares. Items for parlour amusements, I decided as I scanned them: cards of various sorts (though not, I am glad to say, of the tawdry sort I had been offered on the street), sets of dominoes, peg-board games, brightly coloured pick-up sticks, little play-scripts, stereopticons with story- photographs, a terribly clever miniature printing kit with moveable type and an inked pad…I was thoughtfully examining this last item when a contralto voice asked, “May I ’elp you?”"" ""Looking up, I found myself facing a smiling woman of middle"""										
"""age who wore, along with a simple blouse and skirt, a comfortable yet unmistakable proprietorial air. This was her shop."" ""Even so, it took a moment for my rather overstrained mind to"""										
remember that Pertelote was the name of the practical-minded hen in										
Chaucer’s Chaunticleer story.										
No wonder  Sherlock Holmes had stopped coming here.										
"""Somehow ownership had passed from rooster to hen, so to speak, and—as our"""										
old butler’s wife had once told me—neither of my brothers ever could abide a										
strong-minded woman.										
"""“Um, Mrs. Pertelote?” I inquired."""										
Her smile warmed and widened as if at a private joke. “Per-										
"""tell-oh-tee,” she said, correcting my pronunciation so cordially that I felt as though I had been complimented for my attempt. A large-boned woman, with a face like a platter and not a pretty one either, she wore her greying hair combed flat, then wound into two buns, one over each meaty, pendulous earlobe."""										
"""“What became of Chaunticleer?” I answered her smile, willing"" to share her amusement."										
"""“Oh, ’e met ’is better.”"""										
“Yet you keep the carved rooster sign?”										
"""“Well, it’s very old, and one must take care of old things,"""										
"""mustn’t one.” Her smile broadened, yet I felt the topic dismissed. “’Ow may I be of assistance?”"""										
"""Even though she dropped  “’er aitches,”  her accent  was not"" ""entirely Cockney, but pleasantly semi-cultured. I tried to keep mine much the same as we conversed. Indicating the miniature, portable printing kit, I asked, “Could one make calling-cards with this?”""  ""She did not blink, did not seem to wonder why such a poorly"""										
"""clad woman would want any calling-cards, much less wish to print her  own; she did not hesitate at all before answering, “Yes, indeed, but of a rather crude sort. I could make better ones for you, in the back room, if you just need a few.”"""										
shop?”										
“Indeed.” I nodded. “Thank you. Might I look around your										
“Certainly.”										
There were in fact many fascinating trifles and oddities for me										
"""to peruse—square wooden puzzles with tiles that could not be lifted out but slid within the frame, “talking boards” with numbers and letters for spiritualist"""										
"""experiments, velvet roses, music boxes, feather fans, silk scarves, vizard masks,"""										
"""some quite excellent quality wigs of long hair most likely shorn from fever victims, or possibly female convicts—but I took the time mainly because I needed to think. I wanted to accept Pertelote’s offer to make me a few calling- cards—I foresaw needing at least one quite soon—but in order to have her print them, I must settle on an alias for myself."" ""Regarding which, my musings resumed where they had left off:"""										
"""Ever me, Everme? No. Ever I, Everi? Even worse. Ever so, Everso? Given a French twist, Everseau?"""										
Not bad.										
"Very well; perhaps I would not have to use it for long. But what    ""of a first name? Violet? No, a flower name, too risky. Viola? More evocative of a musical instrument than of a flower; Viola would do."" ""If the shop-owner were greedy, I ruminated, she could have"""										
"""sold me the miniature printing press for far more money than she would make by herself printing a few cards for me on, apparently, a better press that she owned."""										
"""Hence, I  found myself  inclined to  trust her, even though"" Pertelote was almost certainly not her real name. No matter. She was not to know my real name either."										
"""In addition to the calling-cards, might I safely buy some even"""										
more compromising items from her?										
I found myself inclined to think so. sort to talk?										
But what if I were mistaken about her? What if she were the										
"""It hardly mattered, for neither Mycroft nor Sherlock was likely"""										
"""ever to speak with her. Either one of them would shudder to go near such a woman, plainly in possession of herself, her own business and her own affairs."""										
"Neither of my brothers could accept or understand a woman ""unattached to some man as wife, daughter or sister."""										
Both of them dismissed women as beyond the comprehension										
of logical thought. Neither of them could imaginatively enter the mind of any woman.										
"""Much less mine. When I, a beak-nosed beanpole of a girl, had"""										
"""run away, I am sure that they had quite expected to find me disguised as a boy; to their way of thinking, how else could such an unfortunately plain female possibly manage?"""										
"""But now they knew that I had masqueraded as a widow, and""    ""later as a nun, so probably they were on the lookout for another"										
"variation on the ugly-as-a-crow theme: a sharp-faced, veiled spinster perhaps? Or a scowling “platform woman” attempting to reform the slums? Probably they had stopped looking for me in male guise. So perhaps now it was time for me to adopt trousers?"""										
No.										
"""I simply did not want to. But more important, I had decided"""										
"""that, in order to find out the details concerning the disappearance of Dr. Watson, I would call upon Mrs. Watson, and in order to do that, I needed to be a woman."""										
But not such a woman as my brothers would ever suspect or even dream I could be.										
Indeed—although I knew the undertaking would involve a tremendous amount of work—I would disguise myself in the last way that either Sherlock or Mycroft could possibly ever envision.										
I would	be beautiful.									
CHAPTER	THE FOURTH									
I WOULD	BE BEAUTIFUL.									
"""This"	"was, I admit,"		a	decision	prompted partly			by	"spleen,"""	
"""bitterness of spirit caused by my mother but deflected onto the more"										
"acceptable target of Men; I had too often observed how men treated women, plain versus pretty. I planned to embark upon a kind of angry experiment: I would prove that these almighty males could be fooled."""										
"""But this was also a practical decision, for if I was walking into""  ""a trap—I could not yet dismiss the possibility that my brother and Watson had concocted an elaborate scheme to take me in—if it were so, why, I must walk out again unrecognised."""										
Even if the crisis were genuine (as I was more inclined to										
"""believe), then Mrs. Watson was sure to be in close touch with Sherlock Holmes, and if she were to mention to him that a tall, thin, ill-favoured girl with a pronounced nose and chin had come calling, he would certainly suspect it was me, and he would be on my trail like a bloodhound. If, however, Mrs. Watson were to mention a visitor of unusual comeliness, he would pay no attention whatsoever."""										
"There was only one drawback to being beautiful: I wanted Mrs. ""Watson to confide in me, but women, even those who are themselves"										
"pretty, often dislike an attractive woman. And while unacquainted with Mrs. Watson personally, I knew she herself was unexceptional in appearance, having read in Dr. Watson’s excellent account, The Sign of  the Four, how he had met Mary Morstan (as she was then called) when she had consulted Mr. Sherlock Holmes. Watson had described his wife-to-be as having “neither regularity of feature nor beauty of complexion,” but went"										
"on to say that “her expression was sweet and amiable, and her large blue"										
"eyes were singularly spiritual and sympathetic.”"""										
"""Perhaps, being good-natured, she would not after all resent me."""										
"Also from The Sign of the Four I had learned that Mrs. Watson    ""possessed “no relatives in England”—hence her visit to Holmes when she had found herself in perplexity. Her mother and father were dead. After boarding school, she had been a governess—not exactly a servant, but hardly on an equal standing with her employers either; most governesses dined alone. And alone, I suspected, was how she might find herself even now, for as a physician’s wife,"""										
she remained in a position halfway between working class and gentry. If she had										
"""“led a retired life,” having no circle of friends before her marriage, was she likely to have one since? I judged not. Poor folk who were in trouble ran straight to Mary, according to Dr. Watson—doubtless she  shared his kindness of heart— but in her own time of trouble, would those same poor folk comfort her? I doubted it."""										
"""Some people wish to be alone in times of trial, but others"""										
"""craved company. While I had no way of knowing, I must take a chance that Mrs. Watson might be one of the latter, and might very much welcome the diversion of a visitor, even a stranger, at this difficult time."""										
"""I hoped so. Indeed, I hoped she would tell me something,"""										
"""however trivial, that would help me enlighten the  mystery of her missing husband."""										
A truly  lovely creature descended from a cab in front of Dr.										
Watson’s										
"""office/residence the next afternoon—lovely with an innocent, modest, timeless beauty so artless that she wafted up the scrubbed white steps like a breath of fresh woodland air—"""										
“Artless”? Hah. Hardly. Hours and hours of work had gone into										
"""the preparation of Miss Viola Everseau, and I could never have achieved such artlessness if it were not that the blood of artists runs in my veins. “Natural” beauty is all a matter of illusion, you see, an arrangement of proportions to foster a conspiracy of admiration amongst the senses of the beholder."""										
My brother Sherlock had once mentioned something of the										
"""sort. “Mycroft,” he had said to my other brother, “the girl’s head, you’ll observe, is quite small in proportion to her remarkably tall body.” He had been negatively assessing my intelligence at the time, and his conclusion was mistaken. But his statement itself was quite true."" ""Therefore I had purchased, at Pertelote’s, a wig of exceptional"" luxuriance."										
"“Arrangement  of  proportions”  in   the  case  of  feminine ""pulchritude means, first and foremost, arrangement of hair. And my own hair, even if it were not the colour of mud and the consistency of a marsh, is annoyingly located atop my head, where I cannot possibly see it or reach it properly to address it. But the wig! What a difference. I simply set it upon a candlestick in front of me, then arranged its  shining rosewood-hued tresses until I got them exactly the way I wanted them, ringlets in a careless chignon at the crown, leaving a generous fringe around the forward edges."""										
Without the wig—and without the inserts I used to round out										
"""my cheeks and nostrils—I was a sharp-faced, hawk-nosed,  sallow- skinned female version of my brother Sherlock."""										
But lovely and convincingly natural-looking hair so amended										
"""the proportions of my head that my pronounced nose and chin miraculously transformed into a classical Grecian profile. Framed by russet fringe and tresses, my skin looked not pallid, but delicately porcelain. Even I  could scarcely believe the transformation."""										
"""There was more, much more, to be done, of course. Natural"""										
"""beauty requires a flaw, a certain wanton violation of symmetry, so I"										
"glued a small, raised port-wine birthmark (courtesy of Pertelote’s) at my right temple, where it served to draw attention away from the center of  my face—that is to say, my proboscis. I then dusted my face with rice powder as if attempting to hide the slight blemish. The rice powder was permissible for a lady to use, but the next item I took in hand, rouge, was not; I had to apply the disreputable substance very subtly to my cheekbones and lips. Then I had “Spanish papers” with which to rub my eyelids, making my eyes appear large and lustrous, but not so much that the artifice could be detected—it took me many attempts to get them  right. As I have said, becoming beautiful required hours and hours of labour."""										
"""With, might I add, no guarantee at all that Mrs. Watson would"""										
"""receive me! It was quite possible that, under the circumstances, she had taken to her bed in nervous prostration, unable to entertain visitors  even if she were willing."""										
Stars and garters! What if I were turned away from her door after all this work?										
"""But one could but try. And at last, I was ready."""										
"""Taking a final look in the mirror, I must say I felt an"" unexpectedly fierce sensation of triumph."										
"""Mrs. Tupper, unfortunately happening to see me going out,"" dropped the china pitcher she was carrying; it smashed to bits. ""On that percussive note I took my cab to the Watson address,"""										
"""and if I wafted up the steps like a woodland breeze, it was because of  my “Sylvan Paradise” eau de toilette, also purchased the day before. I  had never in my life bothered with fragrance—let the gutters stink all they liked, I was never one to hold a scented handkerchief to my nose—but beauty, as I have said, lies not only in the eyes of the beholder, but in a carefully orchestrated conspiracy of all the senses. Hence, perfume."										
"And I had swallowed honey to sweeten my voice. Corseting myself, I had made doubly sure that my bust enhancer remained free of lumps from any of the various objects I stored therein. Also, I had chosen my dress, as you might imagine, with great care, to appear neither humble nor  aristocratic. Every “artless” thing about me, from my Gypsy bonnet—a small, flat hat with a few flowers—to my polished button-top boots, was the result of hours of trial and deliberation. Indeed, I had been up half the night preparing for this encounter. I could only hope that my sleeplessness gave soulful depth to the expression of my eyes."""										
"""And at the moment I reached my destination, of course, doubt"""										
swept in. What if I were a fool? What if the whole world could see that I was merely a crow masquerading as a peacock?										
"""Just at that wretched moment, naturally, the door opened. But"" ""the bouquet I carried, snowdrops and jasmine (hope and sympathy)"										
"carefully arranged and bound by a yellow ribbon, explained my presence; there was no need for me to speak. I hoped that the parlour-maid did not notice how my gloved hand trembled as I laid my calling-card, Miss Viola Everseau, on her silver tray."""										
CHAPTER THE FIFTH										
"""THE MAID SHOWED ME INTO A VERY MODEST parlour, then whisked away towards the back"""										
"""of the house to find her mistress. I stood looking around me. Each parlour window had been raised exactly two inches. Fortunately, in this part of London, the spring air stank only of smoke and street muck, odours mostly offset by the fragrance of the flowers I carried. In London, I had come to realise, those with any spare income at all considered flowers not a luxury, but a necessity for their homes and persons, in order to make living bearable to the sense of smell.""    ""From the back of the house I heard a soft voice ask, “Who is it,"""										
"""Rose?” and then, without waiting for an answer, with my card still in"										
"her hand, Mrs. Watson entered the parlour, her face very pale yet composed. With quiet but warm concern she asked, “Have you come to see  the doctor? I’m afraid he’s not in. Is there anything I can do for you?”"" ""I stood astonished, for I could see how red and swollen her"""										
"""eyes were. No longer could I doubt in the slightest that Dr. Watson indeed had disappeared, for Mrs. Watson’s distress was genuine and evident. Yet she expected to render service, not to receive sympathy."" ""This amazing woman shamed me so much that, handing her the"""										
"""simple bouquet I had brought with me, I could barely speak coherently.  “I read about it in the news,” I babbled, “and I cannot imagine why, for he’s so very kind, your husband I mean, I do hope he is all right, I beg your pardon for intruding at such a difficult time, but I thought perhaps some flowers—”"""										
the small parlour.										
"""Other bouquets had arrived, I saw, but not so many as to crowd""  “How very thoughtful of you. Thank you.” Mrs. Watson’s lip    ""trembled as she accepted the snowdrops and jasmine from me, but her gentle gaze upon my face remained inquiring."""										
"""“I have been a patient of your husband’s,” I added hastily in"""										
"""reply to her unspoken request that I should please explain myself, as I should have done in the beginning."""										
"""She nodded, humbly accepting the presence of a very young,""    ""rather bird-brained, and quite attractive (I hoped) stranger in her parlour. “You’ll forgive me, I’m sure. I do not know all of his patients.”"""										
"""“You can hardly be expected to! And when I saw, in the paper,"""										
"""you know—well, I just had to do something, for he not only remedied my difficulty, but showed the greatest tact and sympathy in doing so.” This was true, in a way. When lying, I always make every possible use of the truth; I can carry it off better that way, and remember more easily what I have said."""										
being here.”										
"“But how thoughtful of  you—what a  lovely gesture—your ""Feeling painfully like a fraud, I mentally reminded myself quite"" sternly that I was here to help her."										
"""“What lovely flowers,” she continued, cradling them in one"""										
"""arm as if holding a baby. “Miss Everseau, I’d be most obliged—I mean, if it is no inconvenience—would you care to stay awhile and have some tea?”"" ""It was as I had thought it might be: No matter what her natural reserve, at this"""										
"""time of trouble Mrs. Watson needed someone, any safe and sympathetic listener, to talk to. As soon as we were seated, with only the slightest encouragement from me she began to tell me how her husband had left the house in excellent humour this past Wednesday morning, planning to make some house calls then perhaps stop at his club—but in the evening he had not returned."""										
"""“I kept his supper warm till it turned to cinder,” she said in a"" ""sort of bewilderment, “and still I could not bring myself to throw it"										
"into the dustbin, because to do so would have been to acknowledge that he was terribly overdue, and I could not yet admit that anything—something— had happened. I kept telling myself he would be home any minute. He had  to be.”"""										
"""She had waited all night for him, and in the morning she had"""										
"""sent for the police and, of course, for Sherlock Holmes. (She assumed, correctly, that I understood her husband’s association with the famous detective.) The police had arrived first but refused to take action until they saw evidence of a crime."""										
"""“They said  wait a bit, it’s not  uncommon for a man to"""										
"""disappear for a day or two or three, then come home all sheep-faced,"										
"having spent the time drunk or in an opium den or with some loose woman.”"""										
“Did they actually say that?” I exclaimed.										
"""“Not in so many words, but one could tell well enough what"""										
"""they meant. As if John would ever do any such things.” Even in the heat of righteous indignation Mrs. Watson’s tone remained sweet.  “Luckily, Mr. Sherlock Holmes came soon after, and set about finding out what had happened.”"""										
“And has he done so?”										
"“He said I would not hear from him until he had something to ""report, and I have not.”"""										
“Has he no theory?”										
"“He wonders  whether some villain is attempting revenge ""against him, of course. John himself has no enemies.”"""										
“No disagreeable patients?”										
"""“Well, of course there is always that. Mr. Holmes took John’s"" medical record-books to check.”"										
in them.										
Good. Then she herself was unlikely to look up Viola Everseau happened?”										
"""I leaned towards her. “Mrs. Watson, what do you think has""  For a moment her composure faltered. She had to lift her hands to her face. “I truly cannot imagine.”"										
Just then the maid brought in the tea-tray. Making a visible										
"""effort, Mrs. Watson rallied and, as she poured, changed the subject. “Do you live with your family here in London, Miss, ah, Everseau?”"""										
"""I told her that no, I lived alone, had worked in an office, was"" ""without employment just now and hoped to find a position in Fleet Street. All true—not that it mattered; if I had told her I rode bareback in a circus, she would have nodded just the same, for her distress was such that she could comprehend nothing."""										
We sipped tea in awkward silence.										
"""For something to say, I complimented the room in which we"""										
sat. “Such lovely lithographs. I quite approve of the combination of comfortable furnishings with touches of culture.”										
"""I quite approved of Mrs. Watson herself, actually, so bravely"""										
serving a second cup of tea while she looked around her own parlour as if she had never been there before.										
"""I added,  “What a lovely little spinnet.” Having been a"" ""governess, of course she had spent half her life at the keyboard of a piano, but I asked anyway, “Do you play?”"""										
"""She scarcely heard the question, of course, poor thing. “Oh,"""										
"""um, yes. Yes, I…” Her sorely preoccupied thoughts wandered, apparently, to a posy of daisies placed upon the instrument. “So many flowers do serve to console one,” she remarked vaguely. “Somewhat, at least. And from strangers, yet. People are so kind.”"""										
"""Nodding agreement, I privately thought she was rejoicing over""     ""crumbs, for there were not many flowers at all. There was of course the"										
"bouquet I had brought—which, I was glad to see, the maid had placed in a vase exactly as I had arranged it. There was a little nosegay of lily-of- the-valley, wishing Mrs. Watson the return of happiness, there were the ubiquitous carnations, some white roses, and—"""										
"""And tucked away on a corner table, the most bizarre bouquet I"" had ever seen in my life."										
"""I am sure I sat up straighter, and my eyes widened, but I kept"" myself from saying anything more than a murmured “How peculiar!” “What?” Slowly Mrs. Watson turned to see what had caught"										
"""my attention. “Oh. Yes, odd, isn’t it? The poppies should be red, but they’re"""										
"""white, and the may should be white, but it’s red, and I have no idea"										
"what the greens are.”"""										
"""“Asparagus!” I marveled. Not the vegetable, of course, but the""  ""cobwebby fronds that spring up afterwards, with leaves like sparse grey- green hair. “Once it’s grown, you know.” Which it should not be, at this time of year; only the spears should be sprouting from the ground."""										
"""Mrs. Watson blinked. “My goodness, how clever you are! How"" did you learn that?”"										
"""“My mother was a botanist.” True enough, and it might have"""										
been said  of half the genteel ladies in England; flowers and botany were considered to be a female hobby.										
bouquet before.”										
"“And she studied asparagus? I’ve never seen it placed in a ""“Neither have I.” But if the greens were bizarre, the blossoms"" were worse; their significance chilled me."										
"""Taking care not to reveal this in the tone of my voice, I asked,"" ""“Mrs. Watson, are you familiar with what is sometimes called the language of flowers?”"""										
"“Only a  little. There has been small occasion for  such ""communication in my life.” She said this with gentle good humour. “The may signifies hope, does it not, and the poppy, comfort?”"""										
"""“In the French tradition, yes.” But this was England, and in"""										
"""British folklore, hawthorn—what she  called “may”—was a shrub long associated with pagan deities and with faeries, a powerful symbol of bad luck. No countrywoman would ever bring a sprig of its pretty cluster blossoms indoors, for to do so might bring down calamity upon the house, even death."""										
"""I did not say this. But I did say,  “The red poppy implies"" ""comfort, I believe, but the white poppy symbolises sleep.”""  ""“Really?” She thought about that for a moment, then actually""  ""smiled. “Well, I certainly could use some sleep.”"""										
"""“What a very odd bouquet. Who, might I ask, gave it to you?”"" ""“Why, I don’t know. I believe a boy brought it to the door.”"" ""Setting my cup of tea aside, I stood, crossing the room to have""  ""a better look. The poppies must have been forced in a hothouse—all flowers except snowdrops came from hothouses at this time of year;"										
"nothing remarkable in that. But that the asparagus should have been so cultivated—most peculiar. Explicable, perhaps, if someone had a boundless yearning for the vegetable—but the hawthorn? Who on earth would trouble with such a useless prickle-bush as hawthorn in a hothouse, when like a weed it grew everywhere in the countryside?"""										
"""Upon studying the hawthorn more closely, I saw that its jagged"" branches were wound round with tendrils of a delicate vine whose white flowers had already wilted."										
Bindweed.										
"""A sort of wild trumpet-flower, bindweed would be as common"""										
"""as sparrows in country hedgerows come summertime. But like the hawthorn, this early in the year, it must have been forced indoors. More, it must have been cultivated with the hawthorn, to entwine it so."""										
"""Bindweed? More correctly known as convolvulus, the plant"""										
"""indicated something convoluted—something stealthy, entangling, twisted."" ""And this ominous bouquet, it seemed to me, had come from"""										
quite a twisted mind. I had to find out—										
"""But as I turned to question Mrs. Watson in more detail, the"""										
"""parlour door burst open and, without waiting for the maid to announce him, a tall, impeccably clad yet vehement gentleman strode in, almost swooped in, his manner as hawklike as the keen profile of his face: Mr. Sherlock Holmes."""										
CHAPTER THE SIXTH										
"""I REGRET TO SAY THAT I GASPED ALOUD, BOTH IN terror and in"										
"admiration—those two"""										
"""emotions seem always to attend my dealings with my renowned brother. To me his craggy features were the most handsome in England, his grey eyes the most brilliant, and if circumstances were different…but there was no time for pointless dreams. I fully comprehended all the peril of my situation, and I admit that I felt a strong inclination to flee. Luckily, in contemplation of the bizarre bouquet I stood so near the wall that it checked my impulse to back away. Had I made such an ill-considered move,  I am sure my brother might have noticed."""										
"""But he  barely glanced at me, although it took me several"" ""thudding heartbeats to comprehend why, for there I stood in plain sight, his tall, gawky, long-nosed sister Enola—until I realised that my  disguise had kept him from really looking at me. Indeed, the moment he  saw a winsomely coifed and attired young woman in the parlour along with Mrs. Watson, he turned his attention elsewhere. One might think he disliked to be in company with such a woman."""										
"""And if I gasped aloud, he did not hear it, for at the same time"""										
Mrs. Watson jumped up with a cry. “Mr. Holmes!” She stretched both hands towards him. “Have you—is there—any news of John?”										
"""To judge by his taut and sombre face, not any good news. As if"" ""capturing two fluttering doves he took Mrs. Watson’s hands in his kid- gloved grasp, but he did not speak, only made a shushing motion with his lips and threw a warning glance in my direction."""										
“Oh! How thoughtless of me!” Hardly what he meant  to										
"""convey; he wanted her to get rid of me, but she seemed to feel that she had been rude, forgetting to introduce me. Freeing her hands, she turned to me. “Miss, um…”"""										
"""If one is literally trembling with ill-mixed emotion, one might"""										
"""as well make the best use of it. Relieving Mrs. Watson of the necessity of remembering my name, I squealed, “Is this really Mr. Holmes, the great detective?” Simulating great girlish excitement, I hurried forward, smiling, nay, grinning like a skull. “Oh, I am so thrilled!” I squeaked, my voice a full octave above its usual level. Even as I quaked in fear that my brother might recognise me, I grasped one of his gloved hands in both of mine. “Oh, just wait until I tell my aunt that I met the famous Mr. Sherlock Holmes!”"""										
"My effusions had the effect I desired: If a sewer rat had ""crawled upon Sherlock it might have repulsed him less. He could not bear to look me in the face, turning his head away as he said frostily, “Miss, ah…”"""										
"""“Everseau. Miss Viola Everseau,” I burbled."" ""“Miss Everseau, will you kindly excuse us?”"""										
"""“Of course. Absolutely. I know you and Mrs. Watson—that is,"""										
"""you have important matters to discuss—I am frightfully honoured and delighted to have met you—” Twittering inanities, I allowed myself to be ushered away by the faithful parlour-maid Rose, who had appeared for that purpose with my wrap in her hands."""										
"Even after I heard the front door of the Watson residence close    ""behind me, I could not quite believe my escape. Mincing down the stone steps, I expected at any moment to hear Sherlock shout, “Wait a moment! Enola? Enola! Constable, stop that girl in the wig!”"""										
But instead I heard his voice speaking to Mrs. Watson: “There										
"""is no very good news, I am afraid.” The words, although quietly and gravely spoken, carried clearly to me through the partially opened parlour windows. “But I have found something. I have found Watson’s medical bag.”"""										
"""I stopped on the pavement where I stood. Oh. Oh, my"""										
"""goodness, I couldn’t simply leave; the sound of my brother’s voice acted"										
"upon me like a magnet upon needles and pins. I had to know more—but what if I were caught listening?"""										
"""Pretending to search my pockets for something, I glanced up"""										
"""and down the street, which lay quiet except for a milkmaid making her deliveries and a cab or two. London is odd that way; slum streets brawl always with women standing in open doorways shouting at one another, children running amok in the muck, beggars, vendors, drunkards, idlers— but the better residential streets lie almost empty. There, scrubbed doorsteps lead up to closed doors flanked by windows without a single broken pane of glass—instead, one sees potted geraniums, a canary in a hanging cage, a meek little “Room to Let” sign, lace curtains."""										
But one cannot tell whether one is being watched from behind the lace curtains.										
"""Holmes spoke on. “I found it at his club, where someone had"""										
stowed it out of sight behind a davenport. It remained unnoticed until today.”										
“But…John would not have left…” Mrs. Watson’s quiet voice struggled against tears.										
“Exactly.” My brother’s voice also repressed strong emotion—										
"""my heart swelled when I heard such controlled anguish in his words. “No doctor, least of all Watson, would ever willingly be separated from his black bag.”"""										
"""Wary of my own feelings, I realised I was quite likely to betray"" myself with  a whimper or some equally undignified  involuntary utterance."										
"""Enola, you silly chit, I mentally scolded myself, get away!"""										
"""I moved,  however, only a few steps, just enough so that"" Holmes and Mrs. Watson would not see me if either of them happened to glance outside; I put myself on a line with the corner of the house and of the parlour. There I stood fiddling with my gloves while trying to calm my breathing and the pounding of my heart."										
"""I could still hear my brother speaking. “Therefore, I think we"""										
can now rule out the possibility of accident. Watson was purposefully lured or spirited away by some person or agency unknown.”										
Mrs. Watson’s soft reply was inaudible to me.										
"""“I cannot be certain, but it seems to me that the anti-medical"" ""elements, yammering as if surgery were vivesection, tend towards hysteria and are unlikely to act with such organised decision. Yet, although improbable, it remains just possible, as do other hypotheses. Some enemy from Watson’s army days, perhaps; I have been looking into that possibility, but my instincts tell me otherwise. Above all I continue to suspect the criminal underworld, but my informants so far have been able to tell me nothing. It is as if one moment Watson were playing billiards at his club, and the next, the earth opened up….”"" ""With a tattoo of hooves on cobbles a delivery-van rattled past,""    ""the driver glancing at me curiously, probably wondering why I was"										
"standing there. In London, any unchaperoned woman who pauses even for a moment to"""										
"""blow her nose puts herself in danger of being taken for a “social evil,” the polite"""										
term for a lady of the night.										
"""“It is  this silence, this hiatus, that I cannot understand,”"" ""Sherlock was saying when the noise had passed. “If Watson was kidnapped, why no demand for ransom? If taken by some enemy, why no gloating message of revenge? We should have heard from such a tormenter by now. Have you anything to report? Anything at all out of the ordinary?”"""										
Her reply was brief.										
“Flowers?”  said Holmes with dismissive  impatience.  “But										
"""surely such social gestures are to be expected. No, if we are to involve"										
"the police, we need something more than a black bag and an anonymous bouquet. Please think. Is there nothing—”"""										
Mrs. Watson said something in broken tones.										
"""“It is true, logic suggests no reason why murder might not have"" ""taken place.” My brother’s voice had tightened to the breaking point."										
"“And in that case there would be no communication. Yes, I have thought it too. Yet I cannot give up hope. One must not give up hope! And,” he added with black fire flaring in his tone, “I will not rest until I have got to the bottom of this affair.”"""										
"""A considerable silence followed, during which another vehicle"" ""trundled past, this time a brougham, the driver and occupants eyeing me askance. I felt like a target set up for marksmanship practice."""										
Finally my brother spoke again.  “We must persevere; we cannot do otherwise. Can you think of nothing to help me?” Silence.										
"“Have you had visitors? Other than that syrupy young woman ""who left just now? Who was she, by the way?”"""										
"""Oh, my  goodness.  My nerves could take no more; I left,"" ""walking down the street in the manner recommended by Ladies’ Moral Companion, “self-possessed and quietly, with not too much lagging and not too swift a step, looking as if one understands what one is about…” Only after I had"""										
rounded a corner did I let my breath out. suspects.										
I wondered whether I had now been added to Sherlock’s list of I certainly hoped not. I did not want him interested in the										
“syrupy young woman.” All the more so because he must not waste his time while trying to find out what had happened to Watson—										
"""But he was wasting his time, I realised as I entered a crowded"" ""thoroughfare of shops and businesses. (“Avoid lounging about the shop- windows; resolutely forego even the most tempting displays of finery."										
"Pass men without looking at them, yet all the while seeing them…”) Brilliant as my brother was at unravelling many sorts of perplexities, he continued to err by neglecting the women’s sphere: in this case, the messages conveyed by flowers."""										
It seemed to me that a gloating message of revenge had indeed										
"""arrived in the form of hawthorn, poppies, convolvulus, and the oddest of greens: asparagus."""										
"""The asparagus I did not at all understand. Nevertheless, I felt""  ""fairly sure that the bizarre bouquet had not come from the criminal underworld, nor from anyone Watson had known in the army. No, I thought, it had come from someone who would not last long in either of those organisations, someone too odd for them. Someone eccentric, petty and spiteful in quite a creative way, someone enjoying an interesting “garden” variety of gleeful madness. And someone so dedicated to the pursuit of botanical malice that he—or she—grew hawthorn in a hothouse."" CHAPTER THE SEVENTH"										
BUT HOW TO FIND THIS INTERESTING PERSON?										
"""Three possible schemes came to mind, and while one (locate"""										
"""and investigate hothouses) would take too long, another seemed more hopeful. I immediately put it into action, finding a place to sit down and write."""										
"""As it was a fine day, I chose  a bench near one of West"" ""London’s new public drinking-water fountains, quite as big as most war memorials and surmounted by winged figures; halfway up its magnificence flared a basin intended, I think, to look like a scallop shell but more resembling a fungus jutting from a tree, with a porpoise-shaped spout giving forth refreshment for ladies and gentlemen. Lower down a similarly"										
"ornate trough was provided for the pleasure of horses, and lower yet,"										
"near the pavement, a smaller trough for the use of dogs and, I supposed, cats, rats and street urchins. Sitting, as I have said, where I could view the intermingled species enjoying this monument to benevolent hygiene, I drew paper and pencil from a pocket and composed a message to be placed in the personal columns of all the London newspapers. After several attempts, I distilled it to greatest simplicity:"""										
"""“Hawthorn, convolvulus, asparagus and poppies: what do you"" want? Reply this column. M.M.W.”"										
"""The initials stood for Mary Morstan Watson, as if the query had"" been posted by her."										
"""Satisfied, I recopied this numerous times for London’s plethora"" ""of publications. Then, by hopping onto a passing tram (which, as a"										
"modern urban woman, I had learned to do without stopping the horses), I paid my penny and was rewarded with a ride to, eventually, Fleet Street."""										
Many a time I had visited the Fleet Street offices of the various										
"""news publishers, and had been waited upon politely but indifferently by various male clerks. This time, however, while even more than usually polite, they seemed far from indifferent. Preoccupied as I was by concerns other than my appearance, I did not at first realise the reason for the change."""										
"""Oh, for goodness’ sake! I fumed to myself when I remembered"""										
"I was wearing a great deal of hair and lady-be-fair artifice. What fools. ""After I had delivered and paid for all my advertisements, the"""										
"""day was turning to night and I was getting quite tired. But I could not yet rest,"""										
"""for I needed immediately to pursue my other scheme to identify the sender of the bizarre bouquet. One does not cultivate hawthorn, twined with bindweed yet, in a hothouse just for a single triumphant moment; such a spiteful person, I believed, would continue to send his or her messages of hatred in floral form. And when the next one arrived, I wanted to be in a position to observe and intercept."""										
"""Therefore, I needed to return to the scene. So much the better"""										
"""that night had now fallen; darkness was to my advantage, lessening the likelihood that Mrs. Watson might see me as I reentered her street of residence. For additional concealment I hailed a cab."""										
"""I had the cab-driver pull up directly in front of my destination,""     ""and I had him wait, so that the cab—a big four-wheeler—stood between me and the residence of John Watson, M.D. The house with the “Room to Let”"										
"sign in the window, you see, stood almost directly across the street from the Watsons’."""										
"Mentally I begged fate or fortune as I plied the door-knocker: ""Please, might the room in question have a window facing in that direction."""										
It did. Perfect.										
"""Perfect, I mean, in that one all-important aspect. In others it""    ""was dreadful—chill, bare and cheerless, with a bed as hard as a board"										
"and nearly as narrow, and a flinty-eyed, disagreeable landlady who named far too high a weekly cost. Small wonder the shrew’s spare room had remained vacant until now. I haggled with her over rent and terms, but only for the sake of appearances; the truth was, I would have taken the room at whatever price, and ended up handing over my money and receiving my latch-key within a few minutes."""										
"""I needed to be in place by the following morning, you see."" ""Already, during the half-day I had spent away, a second suspicious"										
"bouquet might have arrived at the Watsons’ door—a most provoking thought. But even so, I felt no doubt that the malicious sender would eventually provide another, and when it arrived, I must not miss it."""										
"""So I  had my cab-driver take me to Aldersgate, where I"""										
"""dismissed him and, after going in one door of the railway station and"										
"out the other, I engaged another cab. Such precautions had become second nature to me; I must never forget that cab-drivers can be questioned and that I was a fugitive, with the world’s greatest detective taking quite a personal interest in me."""										
"""I had the other cab, then, take me to an East End street where"""										
"""few if any cabs had gone before: that is to say, to my lodging. And I had the driver wait while I packed the things I needed, meanwhile attempting to explain to a rather dismayed and doubtful Mrs. Tupper, “I am going to visit my aunt for a few days.”"""										
“Eh?” She lifted her hearing-trumpet to her ear.										
“I am going to visit my aunt.”										
"""“Eh?” With her watery old eyes widened to their utmost, she"""										
"""still could not understand, yet would not venture nearer to me. Standing in the doorway of my room, watching a lovely young lady throw clothing into a carryall, knowing that for the past month a girl who more  resembled a scarecrow had barely stirred from the room, I am sure she wondered whether I had gone mad, whether she ought to summon a constable to have me committed lest I constituted a threat to the body public. “Eh? Going where? At this time of night?”"""										
“Going! Visit! Aunt!” I shouted into her ear-trumpet. With a satchel in each hand I whisked past her out the door.										
"""The next morning—Sunday—found me applying rouge, birthmark, powder, et"" ""cetera, in order to face the day in lovely ladylike guise—quite a nuisance, this new disguise; all over London, women readying themselves for church were struggling less. But at least my wig did not yet need to be restyled; atop a bedpost—for I did wish to put on the hot, heavy thing until necessary—it perched at the ready with its hat still pinned in place. So as not to be seen"""										
"""without it, I made the loathsome landlady bring my breakfast upstairs, leaving it"""										
"""on a tray outside my door. Meanwhile, corseted to simulate an hourglass figure and wearing quite a fetching puffed-and-pleated Paris-green day- dress, I sat in the window with a pair of opera glasses close at hand, watching the street in general and the Watson residence in particular while taking advantage of the concealing qualities of lace curtains.""     ""As regarded concealment, only my precipitous arrival made it""  ""necessary. After a few days it wouldn’t matter if Mrs. Watson saw me about; indeed, I might approach her and tell her how fortunate I had been to see the “Room to Let” sign on my previous visit just when I was  looking for a new lodging-place, and was there any news of Dr. Watson?"" ""On the other hand, I quite hoped this vigil would not last so"""										
"""long as a few days, for even within the first few hours it had become exquisitely boring. “Nice” streets were too quiet."""										
"""A scattered procession of cabs with Sunday licences, scrubbed"""										
"""and shining in order that cleanliness might actually contain godliness, brought various neighbours, including Mrs. Watson, home from worship."" ""Mrs. Watson, I noticed, took a few moments to pat the cab-"""										
"""horse; rare was the woman who would do that, especially at the risk of besmirching her Sunday best. I regarded Dr. Watson’s winsome wife with mingled admiration and pity; she wore black, as if already she were in mourning."""										
"""After  the  churchgoers  had  gone   indoors,  nothing   at  all"" happened for an hour or so."										
"Eventually a bent old woman in a shawl limped from door to ""door, selling violets from a large flat basket."""										
That was all for the next half hour or thereabouts.										
"""A water-wagon passed at a trot, the horse with tail handsomely"" ""lifted, pleasing to watch until one realised the nag was littering the length of the street with horse-apples. Ironic, as the purpose of the"										
"water-wagon was to clean London’s streets, typically covered with muck a"										
"respectable slug would not have crawled in. The labour of clearing it could not pause even for Sunday rest, for there were a great many horses in the city, and each one produced forty-five"""										
"""pounds of waste per day, or so Mum had once told me—"" Don’t think of Mum."										
"""To distract myself, I tugged at the tasteful opal brooch centered""  ""upon my dress front, thus drawing the slender dagger sheathed in the busk of my corset, the opal being its pommel. Hefting my weapon by its hilt, I felt reassured. I had used it once, on a garroter. Although once an attacker of a different sort had used a knife on me—but my corset had foiled his attempt to stab me. Thus convinced of the value of corsets, I had provided myself with several specially made so that their metal ribs did not nip my waist or jab me under the armpits, only protected me from the likes of Jack the Ripper, while supporting the bust enhancer and hip regulators which disguised my stick-like figure while serving as carryalls, containing emergency supplies plus a small fortune in Bank of England notes—courtesy of Mum."""										
Do not think about Mum!										
Hastily slipping my dagger between the buttons on the front of										
"""my dress, returning it to its sheath in my bosom, I set myself to taking mental inventory of the other items therein. Bandaging, scissors, iodine, spare stockings, needle and thread—"""										
In her best blue cape and bonnet a nanny walked past on the										
"""street below, pushing a parasol perambulator with one hand while with the other she led a toddler in a lacy pink dress and white pinafore."" Yawn."										
"""—head-scarf,  hair   extensions,  pince-nez  eyeglasses  for"" ""disguise, lorgnette by way of magnifying lens, smelling-salts, sugar candies, biscuits—"""										
"""Around the far corner of the street appeared a small, ragged"" boy carrying a bunch of flowers nearly bigger than he was. ""Inventory and ennui at once forgotten, I grabbed for my opera"""										
"""glasses and peered through them, trying to identify the blossoms in the bouquet. But the boy, confounded ignorant street urchin, carried it under his arm, head down, as if it were likely to bite him otherwise. I could hardly see the flowers at"""										
"""all, and had to content myself for the moment with memorising the boy’s scruffy"""										
plaid clothing and rather stupid face. He paused with his mouth open to study each house number.										
"Very possibly he might not be looking for the Watson residence ""at all, might not concern me whatsoever."""										
be—										
My heart pounded in protest at the thought. Nonsense. It has to It was.										
"""After studying the number beside the door at inordinate length,"" he turned to ascend the steps of the Watson residence."										
"""Only then, as he put his back to me, could I catch a clear look"" at the flowers in the bouquet."										
Laburnum. Harebells. Convolvulus again.										
Wispy sprays of asparagus again. Sprigs of yew.										
Ye gods.										
"""Dropping the opera glasses, I sprang up, popped my wig (hat"""										
"""and all) onto my head, snatched my mantle and ran out of my temporary lodging and down the stairs, intent on catching that boy as soon as he had completed his delivery."""										
CHAPTER THE EIGHTH										
"""LABURNUM, YOU SEE, WHILE A VERY PRETTY FLOWER, hangs down in"										
"yellow cascades,"""										
“weeping.”										
"""The blue harebell, long associated with faeries, bad luck and"" ""fey events, means “submission to grief.”"""										
"""The yew is a graveyard tree, signifying death."""										
"So even if it were not for the convolvulus and the asparagus ""fronds, I would have felt sure: These flowers came from the same"										
"spiteful source as that other bizarre bouquet, and might not this evil- minded person be responsible for the disappearance of Dr. Watson?"""										
"""I scooted downstairs, out the front door and onto the street as"" ""quickly as possible, but only to find the confounded fish-mouthed boy— who had approached the Watson residence so very slowly—now trotting off at a goodly pace, just disappearing around the opposite corner."""										
"""Oh, no. No, he was not getting away from me. Snatching up the"" ""front of my skirt with both hands, I ran after him."""										
I am long of limb and love to run—I have always been the										
"""disgrace of my family, running, climbing, and generally acting like a biped—but that accursed skirt slowed me down even as I hoisted it to my knees, for doing so denied me the proper pumping action of my arms. Other parts of my personage compensated so that my head wobbled and I swayed from side to side, altogether, I am sure, resembling a tall Paris-green goose in a tremendous hurry."""										
Onlookers regarded me with shock. I remember speeding past a										
"""lady who stood like a pillar of salt with both silk-gloved hands to her gawking mouth, and as for gentlemen, how my display of my lower limbs affected them I can scarcely say, for, let a lady in an evening-gown show ever so much bosom, still not an inch of ankle must ever peep from  beneath her skirt—but I did not care what I looked like or what anyone thought, for as I sprinted around the corner I spied the street urchin cavorting along not too far ahead of me."""										
“Boy!” I called to him.										
"""Pleasantly enough, I thought, and I fully expected him to turn,"""										
"""and stop, and we would have a nice little talk, and I would give him a penny—"""										
"""but instead, he took one look at me over his shoulder, his lackwit eyes widened,"""										
and he tore off like a hare before the hounds.										
"""The stupid little bounder, whatever was he frightened of?"" ""“Boy! Nincompoop, wait! Come back here!” Without breaking"""										
"""stride I sped after him, gaining on him easily, stunted little slum-bred brat. I should have caught him within a moment if he had not made towards Covent Garden and dodged into streets filled with traffic. Rather than keeping to the pavement, he took to the cobbles, dashing between potato- wagons and carts and cabs and almost under the hooves of coach-horses; here, being born and weaned in the city, he had a great advantage over a country girl who had never been much accustomed to ducking omnibuses! He led me a jolly good chase until finally I lost sight of him entirely."" ""Stopping at the corner where I had last seen him, I stood hot-"""										
"""faced and panting, one hand hauling up my skirt while with the other I disciplined my wig, which felt as if it were about to take leave of my head— confounded thing, no matter how annoying, I should have put it on beforehand and secured it with hairpins—too out of breath to mutter the naughty phrases that came to mind, I looked about me in every direction, with no idea which way to turn."""										
"""I nearly  gave up. Actually, I did give up. With  a sigh of"" ""exasperation and defeat I let my skirt—such parts of it as were not already sodden with horse muck—drop at last to decently cover my ankles. Then, ignoring the stares of dressed-to-be-seen Sunday strollers, I"										
applied both hands to the problem of the slipping wig. Trying to restore										
"some order to my appearance, I lifted it to straighten it—"""										
“Don’t!” screamed a high-pitched voice.										
"""Startled, I looked for the source of this terrified plea and"" ""discovered the street urchin, the selfsame boy I had been chasing, staring at me huge-eyed from his hiding place inside one of the crates (meant for displaying dry goods) flanking the closed door of the corner chandler. Standing where I was, I had unknowingly blocked his escape, but I might never have seen him had he not cried out."""										
"""“No, please, don’t!” he wailed."""										
"""I stood, immobilised by astonishment, with a hand at each side"""										
of my wig. “Don’t what?” I blurted. I could not imagine what he was so afraid of.										
either!”										
"""He shrieked, “Don’t take yer ’air off! Don’t take yer nose off"" ""“Oh,” I said, nodding slowly and wisely, as if he had explained"""										
"""everything. Obviously the boy was a halfwit and needed to be approached cautiously. Taking care to make no sudden movements, as if faced with a cornered animal, I let my wig lapse back onto my head in whatever fashion it so desired. “All right,” I added in easy, soothing tones. “No harm done. Would you like a penny?” Reaching into a pocket, I pulled out a handful of coins."""										
Hearing the jingling sound and catching sight of the shiny										
"""metal, the lad seemed to calm, or at least to shift the focus of his anxiety, as I had thought he might."""										
coaxed.										
“I just want to talk with you a moment. Will you come out?” I										
“No!”										
"""“Why, then, I’ll come in, if you don’t mind.” I simply plopped"" ""myself down to sit on the pavement in front of the crate within which he cowered. Fatigue alone, I think, would not have made me do this—"										
"although I was indeed quite fagged from running—but I found the absurdity of the situation irresistible. All around me I heard horrified gasps  arise from onlookers, and I sensed how they stepped away, as if my extraordinary conduct might spread some sort of contagion. Just two years before, during the Queen’s Golden Jubilee, a lady had sat down on one of the pathways within the Crystal Palace in order to place a sprig  of fir into the top of her boot; not long afterwards she had been committed to a madhouse."""										
By her husband. Not uncommonly a woman might be put away										
"""in a lunatic asylum for insane conduct such as reading novels, going to spiritualist meetings, quarreling, failure to obey, et cetera. Having one’s wife taken off by “body snatchers” in a black barouche was a respectable recourse should her presence become onerous, whereas divorce was a scandal."""										
"""It was quite a good thing that I planned to have no husband, I""  ""thought, smiling and still panting from “running mad.” Seated knee-to- knee with my quarry as if we were two children playing teatime, I told  the filthy little street savage, “How do you do. I am very pleased to  meet you.” As if selecting a bonbon, I lifted a penny between my fingers. “I could not help observing your taking quite a lovely bouquet of flowers to the Watson residence just now.”"""										
"""Warily the boy countered, “Don’t know no Watson,” but his"" gaze had fixed on the copper coin."										
"""“How did you know which house, then?”"""										
“The man told me the number.” “What man?”										
"""“Why, the man ’oo took off ’is nose.”"""										
"""My mind began to feel as fagged as my legs, but I only nodded"""										
"""slowly and sagely once more, deciding to circumvent the nasal"										
"improbability for the time being. “And how did you happen to meet this man?”"""										
"“’E called me over.” The lad demonstrated a beckoning gesture  ""such as any person of any consequence might use to summon any boy"										
"loitering in the street if the latter was wanted to carry a parcel, take a message, hold a horse by the reins or render any simple service.""    “Was he in a gig or a dog-cart?” I inquired."										
"""“No! ’E were in a right shiny carriage, ’e were, wit’ orses.”"" Refraining from telling him that a dog-cart was also a horse- ""drawn vehicle, I merely asked, “A phaeton? A brougham?”"" ""“Don’t know ’bout no broom. A fine black carriage it were,"" with yellow spokes to the wheels.”"										
A description which could apply to half the vehicles in London. I tried again. “Did you see a coat-of-arms?”										
"""“Sure, ’e had a coat on and harms too. Both harms, and ’ands."" ’E give me the posy wit’ one and tuppence wit’ the other.” ""Losing his fear of me, the lad was becoming more loquacious"""										
"""—a good thing, as I found myself rather at a loss, trying to question this boy with a head too large for his stunted body and intelligence too small. “Um, what did this man look like?”"""										
"“Wot like? Wot’s any toff like? Just a long-faced tove in chin- ""whiskers ’n a top-’at, except that ’e took ’is nose off.”"" There it was again."										
tone.										
"“He took his nose off?” I strove to keep incredulity out of my ""Apparently I succeeded, or else the horror of the memory had"""										
"""taken such hold of the boy that he could not help but speak. All in a rush he said, “Knocked it off against the door, like, when ’e stuck ’is ’ead out t’ give me the flowers. It fell on ’is lap, an’ I don’t know wot scared me worse, that nose lyin’ there or the way ’e grabbed it and  cursed me and shook it at me, tol’ me take the flowers right smart or  ’e’d come after me and do the same to me and pull out me eyes into the bargain.”"""										
"""“Um, did you see any blood?”"" made of wax.”"										
“No!” The lad started to tremble. “No more’n if ’is face wuz										
“What did he have where his nose should have been?” boy shivered.										
"""“Nothin’! Wot I mean, ’e was just ’oles, like a skeleton.” The"""										
“Holes?”										
"But the  lad had  gone into a convulsive fit of shuddering. ""“Please, don’t take yer ’air off or yer ears or nothin’!”"""										
"""“Oh, for goodness’ sake, why would I? Did the man put his"" nose back on?”"										
“I don’t know! I ran! I took ’is flowers just as ’e said and then										
"""you come chasing me!” The street urchin started sobbing, not the usual forthright roar of a young barbarian, but a wail of soul-felt distress. His odd encounter, apparently, had upset him considerably. “What were ye chasing me fer?”"""										
“Never mind.” I rose to my feet (aware that each well-bred										
"""person passing by gave me a long stare and a wide berth) and handed the child a sixpence instead of a penny, for I felt sorry to have caused him distress. Evidently there was no more sense to be got out of him.""  Sense? What sense was there in anything I had learned?"										
CHAPTER THE NINTH										
"""RETURNING AT ONCE TO MY TEMPORARY LODGINGS by the most inconspicuous route, I rang"""										
"""for hot water. While I washed, put on a clean dress, sponged the skirt of the soiled one and tidied my hair—that is to say, took off my wig,"										
"combed it out, and pinned it up in an acceptably attractive fashion—I"										
"thought."""										
"""Or tried to think, but succeeded only in wondering how the"""										
"""man had lost his nose. I vaguely recalled that, sometime during the Renaissance, there had been a colourful Danish astronomer who had lost  his in a duel, but dueling was done with pistols now, not swords, and it was banned in England, although still practised in the more backwards little countries of the Continent. I supposed one could possibly get  one’s nose shot off by a pistol. The Danish astronomer—I recalled his  name now, Tycho Brahe—after his duel, had worn a nose made of sterling silver. I wondered why he had not chosen gold, which could hardly have been in worse taste, but I supposed people thought differently about such things before the reign of Queen Victoria. I supposed, now that I thought about it, there were likely a number of men in England whose faces had been similarly altered, if not in duels, then in wars: the Indian Mutiny, the Second Afghan War, that sort of thing. Surely they did not wear  silver noses, or chins or ears as the case might be. What—"""										
"""There came  a timid knock at my chamber  door, and my"" ""landlady’s girl-of-all-work—a wretched wisp of a child who could not  have been more than ten years old—asked, “Will you dine, Miss Everseau?”"" ""“Yes, I will be down directly.” While my current landlady’s""  ""disposition was in wretched contrast to Mrs. Tupper’s, the meals she served were far superior."""										
"""Meanwhile I sent the girl out for the evening papers, and when"""										
"""I returned to my room after an excellent dinner of roast lamb with mint sauce, I turned up the gas—what luxury to have such ease and  effectiveness of lighting, even though the pipes hissed and muttered like a mumbling lunatic. Seated in the least uncomfortable chair, I read all the papers, checking first to see whether there had been any further developments in the Watson case—none were reported—and second to make  sure my personal was included: “Hawthorn, convolvulus, asparagus and poppies: what do you want? Reply this column. M.M.W.”"""										
It was.										
"""Interesting, I thought, that the sender of the bizarre bouquets,"" ""letting alone the matter of his nose for the moment, should be a man. Flowers were generally considered to be in the female domain, although of course there were always a few eccentric amateur scientists, followers of Malthus and Darwin, trying to cross-pollinate orchids in hothouses. Also, upon further reflection, I supposed that any man who had ever courted and/or married necessarily learned something of the language of flowers. How fortunate for me that both my brothers were confirmed bachelors, thereby remaining ignorant. Undoubtedly Sherlock, keeping an eye on the personal advertisements for any demand regarding Watson, would notice “hawthorn, convolvulus, asparagus and poppies” and be intrigued, possibly even thinking, quite mistakenly, that it had something to do with Mum and me; I doubted he would guess nearer to the truth. In any event, I hoped for a response of some sort from the hawthorn man in the morning."" ""Meanwhile, I scanned the newspapers I had been too busy to"""										
read this morning and yesterday.										
"""There were quite a lot to go through, and no particular reasons""  ""to do so except for the discipline of keeping up with the news. But after a while I found myself reading without comprehension, and"										
"occasionally one must make allowances. Yawning, I decided that after I finished looking at the “agony columns” of the Pall Mall Gazette, which I was reading at the moment, I would go ahead and throw the whole lot into the fire—"""										
Just then I saw it.										
422555 415144423451 334244542351545351 3532513451 35325143 23532551										
55531534 313234554411435432513 31533										
Oh.										
"""Oh, my"		"goodness.  Suddenly  wide awake,"				with	"my heart"""			
thumping		I reached for paper and pencil.								
"""First I"		"jotted down the alphabet, thus:"""								
ABCDE										
FGHIJ										
KLMNO										
PQRST										
UVWXYZ										
"""Then I started on the first word. Fourth line, second letter, Q."""										
"""Second line, fifth letter, J."" QJ?"										
"""Realising my mistake, I started over. Fourth letter of the second"" ""line, I. Second letter of the fifth line, V. Fifth letter of the fifth line, Y."""										
"""IVY. Yes, it was for me."""										
The gas-light whispering in its pipes now sounded like a ghost										
in the room. A painful yet incorporeal corset tightened around my chest; I found it difficult to breathe properly as I continued deciphering. But it did not take long to complete the task.										
IVY    DESIRE    MISTLETOE    WHERE    WHEN    LOVE     YOUR CHRYSANTHEMUM										
The best and the worst of all possible messages.										
It seemed I could no longer put off thinking about my mother.										
"""I slept very little that night. Indeed, had I not left all of my warm, concealing,"""										
"""dark clothing behind at Mrs. Tupper’s, I would not have attempted to sleep at all; I would have roamed the city in search of those less fortunate than I, to give them food and shillings and think less of my own difficulties. Such night time questing was very much a custom of mine; a pox on Viola Everseau for keeping me from it. Instead, I needs must lie on a hard and narrow bed while my thoughts refused to be still, chasing around and around like noisy and undisciplined children."""										
"Was there no order left in the universe? Mum had  never initiated communication with me before. Always the other way around. ""It was a trick. Just like the last time “Mum”—actually, my"""										
"""brother Sherlock—had arranged to rendezvous, except that now Sherlock had caught on to the code of flowers, saying “mistletoe” instead of “a meeting”—"""										
"But surely Sherlock would not be wasting any time on me right ""now, with Dr. Watson missing!"""										
Perhaps it really was Mum.										
"""If so, my mother must be in some sort of terrible trouble."" But wouldn’t she name her own time and place if her need to see me were urgent?"										
"If someone were setting a trap for me—letting me choose ""where and when, wasn’t that a way to lure me in?"""										
"""Strictly speaking, Mum should not have said “mistletoe”; that"""										
meant a tryst between a gentleman and his paramour. Mum should have said										
“scarlet pimpernel.” to encrypt?										
Unless Mum simply thought “scarlet pimpernel” was too much										
“mistletoe.”										
"""She could have put “pimpernel,” a word no longer  than"""										
"Was that not what she would have done? Was the message ""fake, not from her at all, a trick?"""										
But why? And by whom?										
It was in the Pall Mall Gazette and no other newspapers. In Mum’s favourite publication and no others.										
It had to be from Mum. I wanted it to be from Mum. I wanted to see Mum?										
Yes.										
"""No. No, I was angry at her, for good reason."""										
IVY    DESIRE    MISTLETOE    WHERE    WHEN    LOVE     YOUR CHRYSANTHEMUM										
The message said “love.”										
Mum had never in her life said such a thing to me. It was a trick.										
It was what I had always wanted from her.										
Either the message was a false one—but from whom?—or else										
"my mother had found some affection for me in her heart after all. ""If I did not respond, I would always wonder."""										
"""And if  I did  respond, I would be risking myself  and my"" freedom for the sake of a single fickle word."										
"""When one does not know what to do, prudence might decree that one should do"""										
"""nothing, but I cannot bear such inactivity. Hence my penchant to wander the night—and lacking that release, at dawn after a mostly sleepless  night I got up and prepared to go out, even though I had no idea where or for what purpose. I donned my corset-armament-supplies-munitions, petticoats, then a frock sufficiently flounced, frilled, ruffled and beribboned to “promenade” city streets, and went on to beautify (in other words, totally disguise) my face. All the while my mind continued its interminable romping circles: Was the encrypted message truly from my mother? Should I reply to it? What would I say if, and when, I did?""    ""For the time being, much as I disliked indecision, I would wait."""										
"""That much I knew, for the only time I had called upon Mum for assistance she had made me wait—and wait—and wait some more; indeed she had not responded at all, and my resentment was such that I felt I ought not to see her until I had disciplined my feelings, lest I say something I might later regret. But at the same time, if she had now really and truly reached out to me, and I did not respond…What if she had been ill, and had only a brief time left to live? What if"""										
"this was my last chance to make my peace with her?  ""Nonsense. If Mum were on her deathbed, she would hardly be"" asking me to name the time and place for a rendezvous!"										
But…										
"""And but, and but, and so my thoughts ground round and round"""										
"""until, like a mill ox, they had worn their own tired path. I had all but forgotten about the missing Dr. Watson, the forlorn Mrs. Watson and the sender of bizarre bouquets, he of the most peculiar removable proboscis."" ""Yet, as I glued my little birthmark onto my temple, up from"""										
"""some hidden kitchen in the cellar of my mind came elucidation on a silver platter, answering my barely asked question of the day before: What did men with faces disfigured by combat do to ameliorate or conceal the defect? Like a dumbwaiter opening to display a tray of éclairs, common sense served the answer: If one needed it, why not a false nose, or ear, whatever, realistically made of flesh-coloured rubber, and where would one obtain such a thing? Surely at one of the establishments dealing in face putty, skullcaps and other theatrical paraphernalia, or perhaps even at the store where I had bought my birthmark and my wig."" Pertelote’s."										
Which used to be Chaunticleer’s. there.										
"""Salvation! Needing something to do right now, I would call"" CHAPTER THE TENTH"										
IT IS MUCH TO THE  CREDIT OF THE PLATTER-FACED proprietess that she did not gawk or										
"""exclaim as I entered Pertelote’s. She only gazed, and murmured, “My goodness. Good ’eavens. And you carry it off splendidly. My congratulations, Miss, ah, Everseau.”"""										
"""So she recognised the wig and the birthmark, remembered my"""										
"""unprepossessing appearance at the time of our transactions, and even recalled the name she had imprinted upon my calling-cards."""										
“Thank you.” I smiled. She knew as well as I did that the name										
"""I used was not my own, just as I was not what I appeared to be, but I heard nothing mocking, condescending or sly in her voice; hers was a warm sort of discretion, one might even say motherly—"""										
As if Mum ever mothered me? Do not think about Mum. “’Ow may I ’elp you today?”										
"With some difficulty I disciplined my thoughts to attend to my ""business, which was to question Pertelote without appearing to do so. Therefore, I had to pretend to be in her shop for some other purpose. “The Spanish papers,” I murmured. “I find them rather awkward. Have you anything…else…”"""										
“Of course. This way.”										
She led me to a back alcove screened off from the rest of the										
"""shop, where she revealed to me a number of remarkable substances—liquid, paste and powdered—that could be discreetly used to enhance one’s eyes."										
"Eye- drops to increase brilliance. Eyelash augmentation to obviate the need for tasteless fakery. Eyelid and eyebrow glosses, “shadows,” and pastel colouring."""										
"""“The secret,” explained Pertelote, “is to use just a ’int. One’s"" advantage is spoilt if one’s ’and is detected.”"										
"Seated on a divine little lace-skirted dressing-chair at a well- ""lighted mirror, dabbing miracle-working unguents onto my face as she directed me, I exclaimed, “Fascinating!”"""										
“Quite so.”										
“Are these materials used in the theatre?”										
"""“No, these  are too subtle for the stage. These are rather"" ""recondite emollients, Miss Everseau. One might find them ’idden in the dressing-table drawers of countesses, duchesses, even queens.”"" ""Merest cant, of course, yet I found myself half believing her.""  ""Greatly impressed, I looked up at her plain large-featured face flanked by buns of grey hair. “I feel honoured. But how ever did you come to discover these?”"""										
"""“Why, in the business way.”"""										
“But how came you into this sort of business?”										
"""“One who is ugly beyond ’ope dealing in the secrets of beauty,""  ""you mean?” She uttered these shockingly frank words with a smile in"										
"which I saw not the slightest trace of bitterness, only amusement. “It is ironic, is it not.”"""										
"Her extraordinary  honesty both delighted and perplexed me. ""“That is not what I meant at all,” I told her sincerely. “How does a woman come to undertake such a queer sort of shop as this?”"""										
"""I noticed that—oddly, for such a  forthright person—she"" ""hesitated slightly before telling me, “Oh, well, it was my ’usband’s at first, you see.”"""										
“Ah! Chaunticleer was your husband?”										
Chaunticleer could not by any stretch of fancy have been his										
"""real name, of course. I suppose that is why she smiled rather oddly."" ""I extrapolated further. “And was he an actor, or some such, that"""										
he entered into merchandising of this sort?” my questions.										
"""“No, not at all.” She seemed less and less inclined to answer"" ""“But he has now, ah, passed away?” In the natural order of""  things she would have taken over the shop because she was widowed. ""“No, ’e’s retired.”"""										
"""Her tone attempted to put an end to my curiosity, but I refused"""										
"""to be quelled. “Truly? How delightful for him,” I prattled. “How does he"										
"spend his time now?”"""										
"""“Oh, in ’is precious ’ot’ouse.” The answer shot out of her in"" ""such a harsh tone, one would have thought he killed puppies for a pastime."""										
Hothouse?										
I had come here intending somehow to find out whether she										
"""had any male customers who required false noses, but had found out instead that she had a husband who, perhaps, cultivated rather nasty flowers?"""										
“You dislike the hothouse?” I inquired meekly.										
"""“I dislike the ’usband,” she answered, grimly yet with such"" ""disarming candour that we both laughed. Then she changed the subject. “Would you like to see the latest emollients to en’ance the lips, Miss Everseau?”"""										
"""In order to placate her, I applied some rosy colour to my"""										
"""mouth, after which I selected amongst the “recondite emollients” she had showed me, making a purchase generous enough, I hoped, to make her think kindly of me. Once the items were done up in a brown paper parcel, I placed it in my string shopping bag, then hesitated in Pertelote’s  doorway at the moment of departure. It seemed to me that, having failed  to work the conversation around to my objective, I must be direct, and that I must ask now or never."""										
"""“I wonder,” I started in a by-the-bye sort of way, “do you ever"" ""have occasion, Mrs., ah…” My pause inquired her name."" ""“Kippersalt,” she said, rather reluctantly."""										
"""“Ah. Mrs. Kippersalt, have you ever had occasion to provide"""										
"""false ears, perhaps, or fingers, for people who have lost their own?”"" ""She started to nod and declare with some small pride, “Why,"" certainly—”"										
"""But I had not yet finished speaking. “Or a false nose, perhaps?”"" ""Her nodding abruptly ceased, and her  tone of voice turned"" sharp. “Why do you ask?”"										
"""“An acquaintance  of mine has had  a most interesting, if"" ""somewhat discomfiting, encounter with a man whose false nose came off,” I said. “I just wondered—”"""										
"""She burst out, “What’s ’e done now?”"" Interesting!"										
“Who?” I demanded.										
"""“Never mind.” Her usual smile had quite turned into a scowl,"""										
"""and suddenly conscious of her big-boned size and strength, I needed to discipline myself not to step away from her. All that was motherly about her had transformed to menace. “What yer prying for?” she demanded, her accent more Cockney by the moment, her fists on her ample hips as she glowered at me. “’Oo are you? Now ye know my name, what’s yers?” Then, when I did not reply, “I don’t want yer business! Get out and don’t come ’ere again.”"""										
"""I did not linger to argue the point, but left with the most lively curiosity capering"""										
"""in my mind. I had, after all, come to Pertelote—Mrs. Kippersalt, I reminded myself, Kippersalt; I must remember that name—I had come only to see whether it was possible for a man with a missing nose to wear a  rubber one, and, if so, did she know of any instances?"""										
"""Well. It would certainly appear that she did, painfully so, and"" ""more so than she desired anyone to know, but what should I do about this?"""										
"""Making my way down Holywell Street, I quite wanted to stop"""										
"""and sit somewhere to think, perhaps on paper—but I could not pause, indeed I"""										
"""hastened my pace, for despite my mental abstraction I had noticed quite"										
"a majority of masculine heads turning as I passed, numerous unsolicited greetings from the “gents” loitering around the print-shops, and a male pest following me"""										
"""—no, two of them! What in the name of Heaven—"""										
"Then I realised I was still wearing the lip colouring and various ""tints, “shadows,”  glosses, eyelash  amplifier, et cetera that I had put  on in Pertelote’s hidden alcove."""										
"""Oh, dear. Men were such simpletons. The more artifice, the"""										
"""more they…such imbeciles, to be enchanted by a wig, some padding and a little paint. Had I rendered myself a bit too ravishing?"""										
At last I reached the more spacious pavements of the Strand.										
"""Hurrying away from Holywell Street, searching for some place of refuge, I heard the familiar call of a boy with newspapers to sell: “Piper!"										
"Piper!” in a Cockney accent. Striding to where he stood, I flipped my penny into his waiting cap and took a newspaper, which I opened at once, standing where I was, simply to hide behind."""										
"""Having done so, by an effort of  will I calmed my own"" ""breathing. As was my usual remedy in trying moments, I envisioned my mother’s face and brought to mind her oft-repeated words to me: “Enola, you will do quite well on your own.” But rather than settling me, the thought of Mum made my heart lurch, for that message—IVY DESIRE MISTLETOE WHERE WHEN LOVE YOUR CHRYSANTHEMUM—I had not yet replied—had it come from her or had it not?"""										
Too many problems. What to do about Mum. What to do about										
"""the strange behaviour of Mrs. Kippersalt. What to do about the missing Dr. Watson. Scanning the “agony columns” of the newspaper I held, I looked for an answer to “Hawthorn, convolvulus, asparagus and poppies” and without much satisfaction I found it:"""										
“M.M.W.: Deadly nightshade. Thank Yew.” Not at all helpful. Only frightening.										
"""The deadly nightshade, an attractive wildflower whose berries""    ""were poisonous, while not to be found in any of  the usual lexicons of  the"""										
"""meanings of bouquets, posed a clear enough threat by its name. The mocking insertion of yew, symbol of graveyards, made it even clearer: a death threat towards, presumably, poor Dr. Watson."""										
"""Good heavens, I had to do something, but what? Immobile"""										
"""behind my shielding newspaper, I stood trying to think, but found it almost impossible to formulate any rational plan when, out of the corners of my eyes, I glimpsed masculine forms lingering nearby, ogling me, and knew they intended to follow me—although I still found it difficult to believe what fools the generality of men were! But experience forced me  to conclude that the sight of a pretty woman turned most of them into jackasses. Why, look at how the male clerks in the newspaper offices had changed their manner towards me when I—"""										
A most illuminating thought opened my eyes wide. Male clerks.										
Newspaper offices.										
Hmm. Chancy—for I lacked experience in the feminine art of flirtation—but certainly worth a try. I had nothing to lose by the attempt.										
Folding my newspaper and thrusting it into my string bag along										
"""with my parcel, I strode to the nearest cab-stand, ignoring the pests trailing me. Selecting a four-wheeler in which to conceal myself, I told the driver, “Fleet Street.”"""										
CHAPTER THE ELEVENTH										
"""EN ROUTE, I SET MY PLANS IN ORDER IN MY MIND. The object of my sortie was twofold: to"""										
"""learn a description, if not the actual identity, of the person who had"										
"placed “Deadly nightshade, thank Yew”—but also to try to find out whether it had indeed been my mum who had sent the message “desire mistletoe” to me."""										
I decided I must address the matter of the bizarre bouquets										
"""first, for Dr. Watson’s life might well be at stake. Secondarily, I admitted to another, selfish reason: Assuming that “Deadly nightshade, thank Yew” had been placed in all the newspapers, I would have several opportunities to try out my plan—but 422555 415144423451 et cetera (IVY DESIRE MISTLETOE) having appeared only in the Pall Mall Gazette, I must know what I was doing by the time I got there."""										
In the privacy of the cab I extracted scissors from my bust in										
"""order to clip today’s message from my newspaper before discarding the latter. Then, at the busiest corner of Fleet Street (for I did not wish  to be noticed) I rapped on the roof of the cab to bid the driver to stop. After paying my fare, I walked a few steps to the nearest newspaper  office (it happened to be the Daily Telegraph) and approached the desk, where a young man of the “gent” persuasion was diddling with pen and blotter."""										
"""“Excuse me,” I lisped in the wispiest voice I could manage."""										
"""He glanced up  quite indifferently, but upon taking in my"" ""pulchritude of person, he straightened to attention like a bird dog on point."""										
"""Cooing,  “Would  you happen to remember who placed this"" personal advertisement?” I showed him my clipping."										
"""“I, um…” With difficulty he managed to read it and ogle me at"""										
"""the same time. “Deadly nightshade, thank Yew. Ah, yes, that is an odd one. I seem to recall—”"""										
"""“We do not give out such information,” interrupted quite a""    ""starchy female voice; I glanced up to find an older woman in (also starchy) bombazine, obviously a supervisor, standing by. She glowered"										
"down upon the young fellow at the desk, but directed her remarks towards me, scolding as if I were a schoolchild, “If you were to place a personal advertisement, you would not desire to have your identity disclosed, now, would you?”"""										
"""Taking my clipping back from the hapless clerk, I turned and"" exited with such dignity as I could muster. So much for the Daily Telegraph."										
I proceeded towards the next newspaper office.										
"Quite a long day ensued. I will spare the gentle reader a full ""account of my rebuffs and near-triumphs other than to say that, in"										
"general, males welcomed me and females did not; very much the opposite. I did manage to obtain a little information when males, but not females, were present. In two instances, young men—I cannot say gentlemen, as they implied that I owed them a certain familiarity in return—indeed I felt much mortified as I wheedled information out of them, but putting aside  my maidenly revulsion, I found reason for satisfaction: Their accounts tallied. The “deadly nightshade” advertisement, they both said, had been placed by a most peculiar man with a grey goatee, wearing a top-hat although he seemed not to be upper class, evidently trying to make  himself appear taller, for he was slight of height, stark-boned and altogether rather repulsive. Pressed as to what exactly, other than his lack of stature, caused this impression, they replied that he looked odd— “cadaverous,” said one. “Like a leper,” said the other. Asked how so, he seemed rather at a loss, but explained that there was something odd about the man’s face."""										
such.”										
"""“Kind of like a dummy made of wax, if you’ve ever seen any""  It seemed to me that they might very well be depicting “just a"										
"""long-faced tove in chin-whiskers ’n a top-hat, excepting that ’e took"										
"’is nose off,” as a much-perturbed street urchin had once told me—a man with a false nose glued on, the juncture disguised with face putty. Such artifice might give his features a subtly disturbing tone, texture and rigidity."""										
"""Given what I had learned, I felt it safe to surmise that the""  ""sender of bizarre bouquets had indeed answered my advertisement, and"										
"while gratified to verify his existence, I worried: How to find this most interesting individual?"""										
I had no idea.										
"Except   that   Pertelote—Mrs.   Kippersalt—might   know  ""something of him, having reacted so oddly to my questions. “What’s ’e done now?” And having then angrily banned me from her shop."""										
Hmm.										
I quite wanted to know where the Kippersalts lived and see										
"""whether Mr. Kippersalt cultivated hawthorn in his hothouse—indeed, I much desired a look at Mr. Kippersalt himself, to see whether his face seemed long, leprous, cadaverous, waxen, et cetera."""										
work?										
Might I find him by following Mrs. Kippersalt home after her										
"""Not tenable, I decided after brief consideration. At this time of""  ""year, darkness had not yet fallen when the shops were closed, and if  Mrs. Kippersalt were to catch sight of me, no matter how I dressed she would recognise me, having seen me in so many guises already. Also, I had no desire to repeat the adventure of “shadowing” someone. The last time, walking in the street to avoid the lamplight of the pavements, and I had nearly been flattened by a Clydesdale pulling a lumber-wagon."""										
"No. I needed to find Mr. Kippersalt by other means. ""Kippersalt: Not a common surname, and locating his place of"""										
"""residence should have been simple enough were London run like a sensible city, but it was not. Indeed, the world’s largest metropolis was also the world’s worst governed. London was organised—or, more properly, disorganised—into more than two hundred boroughs, each with its own records-keeper, tax-collector, constables, et cetera."""										
"""However, hypothesising that the Kippersalts lived not far from""  ""their shop—as was most often the case with older people engaged in commerce that had been established before the Underground had begun to whisk workers from the outskirts of London into the City—if the"										
"Kippersalts lived on Holywell Street or not far away, I might visit only two or three borough offices before I obtained some information."""										
"""As these thoughts occupied my mind, my footsteps took me"""										
back down Fleet Street towards the one newspaper office I had not yet visited: that of the Pall Mall Gazette.										
"""As I entered, my heart sank, for I saw that a stiff and spinsterly"" woman sat behind the desk."										
"""Just the same, I had to try. On the window ledge lay copies of""  ""the paper for the last several days. With my foolish heart pounding beneath the dagger concealed in my dress-front, I located the one I needed, opening it to find amongst      the      personal advertisements      “422555     415144423451"""										
334244542351545351   3532513451  35325143  23532551  55531534  313234										
55441143543251331533 (IVY DESIRE MISTLETOE WHERE WHEN LOVE YOUR CHRYSANTHEMUM).”										
"""Pointing it out to the dry stick of a woman behind the desk, I"" ""asked—indeed, I begged—“Could you tell me who placed this?”"" ""“Indeed I could not,” she rapped out in answer."""										
"""Could not, or would not? She seemed quite the virgin queen of"" ""her small realm, one who would know everything."""										
"""I tried again. “Might you tell me, at least, whether it was a man"" ""or a woman?” If it was a woman, it had to be Mum."""										
"""And as I thought this, my heart froze, for if it were so, I still did"""										
not know how to respond. nothing.”										
"""But the old maid  behind the desk snapped,  “I can tell you"" ""I offered a bribe; she reacted angrily. Still, I pleaded with her""  for several minutes longer. Only when she threatened to summon a constable did I leave the office."										
"""Very well, I had done my best."""										
Although some invisible cook seemed to be mixing a very										
"""strange pudding of emotion in my chest—was I distraught that I had found out nothing, or relieved?—yet in my thoughts I pushed Mum away for the time being."""										
"There was a much more pressing matter to be attended to. ""A deadly one, thank Yew."""										
"""Some hours later, I entered the humble abode of the much- bewildered Mrs."""										
"""Tupper, who blinked several times when she saw me come in."" supper?”"										
"""“Miss Meshle,” she asked uncertainly, “would you like some"" ""“No, thank you, Mrs. Tupper.” I was in a great hurry to change"""										
"""into dark, inconspicuous clothing. “I have no time.” This fact did not improve my humour, for I felt as hollow as a drum, having missed luncheon as well."""										
“Eh?” The deaf old soul placed her hearing-trumpet to her ear.										
"“No! Thank you! Mrs. Tupper!” For once shouting was not a    ""nuisance, but a relief to my feelings. My feet hurt abominably from"										
"slogging up and down Fleet Street plus visiting eight—no, ten—I had lost count—an inordinate number of borough offices without locating a single Kippersalt except one Augustus Kippersalt, who had been put away in  Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum; he could not possibly be my man. Altogether, it had been a most trying day."""										
"""My only hope, then, was—after all—to get back to Pertelote’s"""										
"""by the time that much-ruffled oversized hen of a woman put her shutters up, to see where she went."""										
"""Limping upstairs to my room, I relieved my suffering feet of"""										
"""my unfortunately fashionable boots. I snatched off my wig and sloughed off my dress—peach-coloured taffeta interlaced with white “baby” ribbons, most unsuitable for concealment—then yanked a dark, commonplace woollen blouse and skirt out of my wardrobe to put on. I slipped my blistered  feet into thick socks, then my blessedly comfortable old black boots."										
"Having no time to wash the “recondite emollients” off my face, I smeared ashes from the hearth upon myself. Transformed thus to quite a commonplace Sally-down-the-alley, I sheathed my longest dagger in the front of my corset, grabbed for a rusty black shawl to throw over my head, and ran back downstairs, feeling rather than facing Mrs. Tupper’s puzzled gaze as I bolted out the door."""										
CHAPTER THE TWELFTH										
“CAB!” I YELLED IMPERIOUSLY AT THE FIRST opportunity.										
"""The  driver,  although  no  society  prize  himself,  turned"" incredulously upon being hailed by an apparent woman of the slums. “Yer addressin’ me?”"										
"""I tossed him a golden coin, which instantly silenced his doubts"""										
"""and objections. “The Strand at St. Mary’s,” I told him as I climbed in, that corner being close enough to Holywell Street; he must not know where I was actually going. “And another sovereign if you get me there in ten minutes.”"""										
"""“Yes, ma’am!” Plentiful cash-at-hand worked better than""  ""ravishing beauty to transform one’s status, under certain circumstances. “I’m your man. Me and old Conductor ’ere, we’ll see you there.” As he whipped his wretched ewe-necked nag into a rapid trot, I tried not to"										
"think of anything I had ever read in Black Beauty, sitting back, bracing"										
"myself against the swaying of the conveyance and disciplining myself to consider instead what lay ahead."""										
I disliked rushing in such a headlong fashion into I knew not										
"""quite what, but I felt I must seize the moment, for in Pertelote’s—that is to say, in Mrs. Kippersalt’s anger I sensed an opportunity that might not occur again."""										
"""I was going to have to try to “shadow” her home after all,"""										
"""because she would take her anger along with her when she went there. She would direct her ire at her husband—“What ’ave ye done now?” And I quite wanted somehow, I did not yet know how, to hear the answer."""										
"""Moreover, I needed to look at Mr. Kippersalt. I had spent a""    ""great deal of imagination upon Mr. Kippersalt, and seeing him would either support or disprove my hypotheses, which were:"""										
"""Suppose that a man, in war or in some unfortunate accident,""  ""had his face maimed, including but not limited to his nose."" ""Suppose that, in attempting to find ways to conceal the defects"""										
"""in his appearance, he became an expert in face putty, rubber features and the like; might he not open a shop specialising in these things, if only to obtain them readily for himself?"""										
"""Being quite an unprepossessing man, might he not, for the sake"""										
"""of housekeeping and so on, marry an exceedingly plain woman who had no other"""										
prospects?										
Perhaps an ambitious Cockney woman?										
"""Having wed him not for love but for self-advancement, might"""										
this unusual woman improve herself to the extent that eventually she took over the running of the shop?										
extent that he—										
Might he not resent being pushed aside? Resent it to such an That he did what? Avenged himself upon Dr. Watson?										
Whatever grudge could he possibly hold against Dr. Watson?										
But wait a moment. Perhaps he blamed Watson for the loss of										
"""his nose? Suppose it had happened during the second Afghan War, in which Watson had served as an army surgeon? Perhaps Watson had amputated his wounded proboscis?"""										
"""Brilliant, I congratulated myself mentally, pleased and excited"" to have hit upon such a plausible connection."										
"""The speeding, swaying, veering cab in which I sat pulled to a"" jouncing halt at my destination."										
"""I burst out before the wheels had quite come to rest, leaping"""										
into a full-tilt run as I threw the cabbie a sovereign even though I had no clock to tell me—had he got me here quickly enough?										
He had.										
"""Panting, I poked my head around the corner of Holywell Street"""										
just in time to see Mrs. Kippersalt closing the last shutters to secure her shop for										
the night. Then she went back inside to fasten them.										
"""The  last  rays   of  daylight—blessed,  sunny  light  most"" ""uncommon in London—lingered on the peaked roofs of the crowded old buildings as I waited, watching the door, expecting it to open and her to emerge with coat and hat, gloves and umbrella, to lock up and start homeward."""										
"""Daylight turned to dusk, and I still waited."" Mrs. Kippersalt had not come back out."										
"""What ever in the world had become of her? Perhaps—oh, good"" ""heavens, no—she had gone out a back way?"""										
"""Quite unlikely, for Holywell Street meandered along the edge"""										
"""of London’s most dense, clotted “rookery,” tottering houses shouldering one another, each containing a swarming “nest” of poverty-stricken"										
"inhabitants. Spaces—no, indeed, tunnels, for the upper storeys closed"										
"together overhead— passageways no wider than gutters separated these buildings from one another, unlighted, and no cleaner than gutters either, with rats abounding, as well as lower forms of human life."										
"Inconceivable that Mrs. Kippersalt would venture alone into such a sewer- above-the-ground unless she looked forward to the attentions of Jack the Ripper or like-minded others."""										
seeing her.										
Inconceivable that  she could have slipped away without my Yet with each passing moment it seemed more and more										
"""evident that she had done so, and that I was a fool. And I called myself a perditorian? No, I was a mere girl, more fit to cut out paper dolls, I despaired as dusk deepened into dark. Lamplight glowed from rooms up above, but it did not comfort me, serving only to cast me into deeper shadow, for these ancient buildings loomed like a sea-carved cliff, their upper storeys jutting out over the pavement, gables protruding, each  floor with eaves and bay windows overhanging the one below, so that they seemed built upside down, larger at the top than at the bottom, and  likely to crash down upon one at any moment."""										
Like my little struggling self-made world. I tried to do things										
"""and find missing people, but to what effect? Here I stood in the dark, alone, cast aside by my own mother, feeling wretched enough to mew like a lost kitten—"""										
"A glow of  lamplight sprang to life in the first storey over ""Pertelote’s. Light sprang to life in my mind, also, as it were. My melodramatic musings abruptly ceased. The next moment, abandoning misery along with concealment, I ran across the street—unpeopled now that the shop-windows stood dark—and up the pavement to Pertelote’s."""										
"""If that were she up there in the room over the pavement, the"""										
"""room under which swung the sign carved in the shape of a rooster—if, as might very well be the case, why had I not thought of it before!—she lived over her shop—"""										
I had to see.										
"""Quickly. Already they were quarreling—yes, it was Pertelote in"""										
"""the upstairs room; I recognised her contralto voice—she and someone else were arguing vehemently. Through a partially open window I could hear their angry tones from where I stood, although I could not catch the words."""										
I had to get closer. But how?										
"""I saw within a moment how to start, at least. Taking three quick"" ""strides to the shadowy, stinking gutter-gap between Pertelote’s and the next shop, I yanked my skirt above my knees, and by pressing parts  of my personage against the opposing walls—truly, I cannot with decency detail how I ascended the narrow space, except to say  that up I went rather  like a sweep inside a chimney."""										
"After the first six feet or so I felt small fear that anyone who ""might happen to pass by would spy me, for who would look upwards to notice a girl in such an unlikely position?"""										
"""As my head neared the level of the gas-lit window, I could hear"" ""Pertelote more clearly. “You think I’m a fool? Ye’re up to some mischief, gadding about when my back’s turned. I want to know what.”"" “I told you. Taking care of my own business.”"										
"""Wait a moment. The second voice, husky and low, sounded"" almost exactly like the first. Two women. Who was the other? Where was Pertelote’s husband?"										
"""Pertelote scolded, “You got no business but to stay home and"" don’t plant no more people.”"										
“I didn’t plant nobody. Just filled out some papers to put ’im where ’e put me. The place ’ll do for ’im.”										
"""I heard a gasp  of shock, then Pertelote all but  screamed,"""										
"“You’re mad as a ’atter! Me ’usband was right to ’ave you put away!” ""“But you made ’im get me out again, didn’t you?”"""										
“Shut your wicked mouth. You—”										
"""“You made ’im get me out again,” insisted the second woman,"""										
"""“because ye can take care of me at ’ome ’ere. Ye’ll always take care of me, won’t ye, Sissy?”"""										
"""Something about the voice—not merely its peevish tone, but"""										
something as implacable as time—made the hairs prickle on the nape of my neck.										
"""I had reached the limits of my “chimney,” the point at which"""										
"""the buildings’ walls joined together, and the window from which the voices issued remained above me and off to one side. I could hear but I could not see."""										
"I had  to see.  See who was speaking. See who was  so  ""obstinately repeating, “Ye’ll always take care of me, I said; answer me. I know ye’ll always take care of me.”"""										
Like a horizontal wall between me and that window jutted the eaves that sheltered the pavement below.										
"""Quite hard, that pavement. Most unrelenting to fall upon."""										
Nevertheless…										
"""I took a deep breath. Then I leaned out over the dark abyss,"""										
"""grasped the rounded wooden edge of the eaves with both hands, and kicked away from the safety of my “chimney,” trying to swing myself upwards and onto the confounded obstacle."""										
"""I succeeded in throwing one knee over. However, at the same"" ""time, one hand lost its grip."""										
"""A knee, I quickly discovered, does not function as well as a"""										
hand under such circumstances. It slipped off. I had to exercise every iota of self-will not to scream.										
"""“Ye’ll always take care of me, won’t ye, sister mine?” insisted"""										
the relentless contralto voice. “Say it. Ye’ll always take care of me.”										
Would that someone might take care of me! Catching hold of										
"""the too-smooth edge of the eaves again with my other hand, I hoisted myself with strength spurred by panic, and managed to get the upper portion of my personage over the top, then my lower limbs, then roll away from the edge. Panting, I found myself lying on a slantwise sort of ledge."""										
"""“Ye’ll always take care of me,” that fanatical voice went on,""  ""singsong, as I sprawled, gasping for breath, scared half out of my wits, and that voice added frisson to my fear. Each word chilled me. Not only the tone, but the substance: take care of me, take care of me—it was, in the heart of my heart, what I had always wanted—of my family…"""										
"""“Ye’ll always take care of me, won’t ye, sister mine? Say it!"" Ye’ll always take care of me.”"										
"""“Of course I will always take care of you,” Pertelote snapped"" ""finally. “I always ’ave done, ’aven’t I?”"""										
me face.”										
"""Triumphantly the other responded, “Not when ye let the rats eat"" CHAPTER THE THIRTEENTH"										
RATS. EAT. FACE.										
"""If she’d said it a moment earlier, before I’d gained the ledge, I"" ""believe I would have lost my grip and fallen to nearly certain death on the pavement below. As it was, I flattened myself like a squirrel as the falcon flies overhead, trembling, my fingers clutching at the shingles and my thoughts clawing at an even more slippery slope."""										
“That was forty years ago.” Pertelote’s weary voice.										
"""“Forty-two,” complained the other, and in her ever-so-accurate"" ""spleen I recognised, with revulsion, something of myself."""										
The way I was holding a grudge.										
Mother. Mum.										
"""I’d long ago forgiven her for going away, free spirit that she""    ""was. She had provided for me. We communicated by code in the personal"										
"columns of the newspapers. But two months ago, on one of the coldest days in January, feeling a bit desperate, I had asked her to come into London to meet me. How it hurt, still, that she had not even replied."""										
asleep.”										
"""“I was only five years old,” responded Pertelote wearily. “I fell"" ""“And I was only a baby,” retorted the other, “’elpless in the"" ""cradle, and ye let the rats crawl on me and nibble me nose off—”"" ""“Stop it, Flora.”"""										
But Flora’s drone did not hesitate for so much as a syllable. “—										
"""and me lips, and the better part of me cheeks—”"""										
“Stop it!”										
“—and ye were supposed to be watching me—”										
"""Yes, she too wanted to be taken care of, living with her sister,""  ""how comforting it should have been, sisters together. I’d never had a sister. I—"""										
"Was I about to tell myself I had always wanted a sister? ""Nonsense, Enola. You never till this minute even thought of it."""										
As for being taken care of: I had two brothers quite eager to										
take care of me by have me schooled in the social graces and rendered fit for matrimony. And I had a mother who had taken care of me by giving me freedom and the means to employ myself as I saw fit.										
"""Stop feeling sorry for yourself, Enola Holmes. You’ll do quite"" well on your own."										
"""That inner voice, kind yet firm—it was my own, yet it was as if"" Mum were still with me. In me. And in that moment quite willingly I forgave her for being the way she was."										
A weight flew away from my heart.										
"""Meanwhile, Flora was still complaining, “Ye’re my big sister,"" ""supposed to take care of me, and ye’re saying I didn’t cry loud enough to awaken ye?”"""										
Her lament sounded merely wearisome to me now.										
"""But even though Pertelote must have heard it many, many"""										
"""times before, it affected her. “For the love of God, Flora, stop!” she flared with pain in her voice. “You’re cruel!”"""										
"""“It’s me ’oo’s missing a nose, Sissy, not you.”"" Nose."										
"""Oh, my goodness."""										
"""No longer flattened or trembling, I lifted my head, for I quite""     ""wanted a look at Flora. With my mind once again focussed on the present circumstances, I realised that my brilliant theory of a soldier who’d had his nose amputated by Dr. Watson needed to be discarded, even though it was a man who had sent the bizarre bouquets—"""										
"Or was it? I had to see whether Flora might pass as a man.  ""Easing myself to  my hands and knees, I crept (mentally"""										
"""excoriating my skirt; most difficult to crawl in) along the ledge as silently as I could, towards the window."""										
"""Pertelote said, “Ever since Ma died I’ve done my best for you.”"" ""Very likely true. From my first acquaintance with Pertelote, she"""										
had seemed motherly to me. Evidently she had taken the responsibilities of a mother at an early age.										
At the corner of the window I inched my head upwards until I										
"""could see—not much, at first. Lace curtains. But by leaning forward I could peer through them, albeit dimly. I could make out a drab and shabby chamber within, a sitting-room, although neither sister occupied a chair; their passions had levitated them to their feet. Pertelote stood with her back to me, fists on her ample hips, partly hiding Flora from my view. I could tell of Flora only that she was sturdy, like her sister, and"										
"plainly dressed in blouse and skirt, like Pertelote again. Although I"										
"imagined Flora’s face would similarly be large and plain, I could not see her features."""										
"""And it was Pertelote doing the ranting now. “All my life since,""  ""always trying to make it up to you,” she cried, “always! Got my ’usband into the business looking for ways to make you presentable—”"""										
“Ye were just trying to marry me off and get rid of me.”										
"""“I were trying to make ye ’appy, and a decent woman, but you"""										
’ad to go and put on a beard an’ trousers—”										
"""Oh. Oh, my, she was the sender of the bizarre bouquets; she"""										
"""had to be. In a fever to see her face, I pressed close to the outside of the window glass."""										
raged.										
"""“—gadding about doing the devil knows what,” Pertelote"" ""“I had to act the part of yer ’usband, now, didn’t I?”"""										
"""“No, you didn’t! You don’t want to let ’im rest in peace, you’re"" just wicked and full of ’ate—”"										
"""“You try being ’ideous.” Heavens, the afflicted woman pitied"" herself. She needed some starch. “At least a man is allowed—” ""“—going against nature, ’ow many times ’ave I told you to stay""    ’ome when I’m working? But now I ’ear you’re up to your tricks still! I’ve ’alf a mind to send you back to Colney ’Atch myself!”"										
"""The other one screeched in rage, lunging at her sister, and—I"""										
"""could see her face now, but I wished I couldn’t, for she snatched off her nose with one hand and thrust it at Pertelote, shaking it like a weapon as she screamed, “You try it and see what ’appens! You just try it!” With her other hand she ripped rags of concealing putty off her mouth and cheeks. Her face, or what was left of it, writhed like a mass of slugs. “You’ll be sorry! You and any doctor ’oo signs an order for you!”"""										
"""I barely comprehended what Flora was saying, so terribly did"""										
"""the sight of her unnerve me—to see, instead of a face, crawling flesh; instead of mouth and nose, merest cavities. And her eyes—there was nothing wrong with her eyes except that, I think, they had forgotten how to weep, and murder glittered in their glare. The sight of those sere eyes affected me as much as the sight of her maimed face; I think I must have moved or made a sound, for her crazed gaze swung and caught upon me."""										
Caught me at the window like a great stupid fish drawn by a lighted torch to the surface of a nighttime lake.										
"She screamed as if she were seeing a—a mass of writhing ""slugs, I suppose—and pointed at me."""										
"""Just as Pertelote swung around to look at me also, I ducked."" ""One of the sisters, I know not which, shouted something quite"" shockingly unrepeatable."										
"""I fled. But on that narrow ledge I could not turn quickly, if at""    ""all, so I could not go back the way I had come. Instead I scooted forward, around the corner of the building, towards I knew not what."										
"Along the eaves like an oversized caterpillar I wobbled, trying to crawl but hampered, indeed nearly thrown over the edge by my accursed skirt. I firmly believe that the whole reason women must wear long skirts is so that they are unable to do anything worthwhile."""										
"""Behind me I heard the window wham open and Pertelote, I"""										
"""think, bayed in a voice worthy of a whole pack of hounds, “Police! Help! Burglar! Police!”"""										
"""A constable’s whistle shrilled from the street, summoning"" ""others of his ilk. Answering whistles sounded to the north, west and east. From inside the building I heard the pounding of feet on stairs, going down."""										
They expected me to run away the same way. Go down.										
Therefore I would not. I would go up.										
"""Easier said than done, with a skirt wrapped around my ankles,"" ""and no light by which to see. But at the next corner my fumbling"										
"progress encountered a drain-pipe, and I seized upon it with both hands, hauling myself skywards like a sailor swarming up a mast. Meanwhile,  below me, neighbours took to the street, police arrived and the hullabaloo—shouts, screams, whistles, clatter of hooves and thud of running feet—frightened out of me such strength as I had not thought I possessed. I reached the top of the drain-pipe only to be blocked by yet another beetling overhang of the cliff-like building, but somehow in my frenzy, like a cat when the mastiff threatens, I scrambled up and over it without hesitating."""										
And encountered yet another wall. Would I never reach the										
"""refuge of the rooftops? For a moment, out of utter frustration, I beat against the ancient plaster with my hands, but that was a useless waste of time and effort. I turned away from the street and ran along the narrow eaves in the dark. Ran. I did not creep or crawl as I had so cautiously done a few moments before, nor, preferring to remain on my feet, did I edge or inch in any sane fashion such as"""										
"""would have been appropriate to the circumstances. I ran, unable to see upon"""										
what my feet were landing. Perhaps lunacy is contagious. With considerable force I banged into rough wood.										
"""I am afraid I muttered something quite naughty as the barrier,""  ""whatever it was, inflicted its presence upon my nose, which as usual had arrived where I was going ahead of the rest of me. My hands quite wanted to comfort the nose, but I made them instead explore the structure that thwarted me."""										
It might have been the side of a bay window.										
Ours not to wonder why; ours but to do or die; into the valley										
"""of death charged—no, onto the rooftop of desperation climbed the idiot who ought to be thankful for possession of a nose however protuberant; onwards and upwards, excelsior! Scrabbling to ascend the whatever-it-was, I clambered to its narrow top and, standing there, took a deep and thankful breath, for I could see now, albeit dimly."""										
I could see intimations of sky freckled with stars. pots.										
"""And against it, interruptions in the form of peaks and chimney-"" At last!"										
"One more mad scramble over one final confoundment of ""jutting eaves, and I had achieved the roof."""										
lying flat.										
"""Panting, I let myself lapse onto the steeply angled shingles,"" Safe."										
until daybreak.										
"No one could possibly find me now. I would simply rest here    ""But even as I thought it, in the street far below a sergeantly"""										
"""voice bawled, “Wheel it around this side! Over ’ere! ’Ow do you work the fool thing?”"""										
The next moment the most extraordinary blinding-bright white										
"""sword of light stabbed the darkness, slashing it wide open and routing night into fleeing shadows. I had read in the newspapers, of course,  about Scotland Yard’s new electric search-light, but reading is one thing and being struck by such lightning is another. I am afraid I screamed aloud. However, so did everyone else in the world, or at least everyone  in the crowded street below—so I think no one heard me."""										
“Tilt it up towards the roof!”										
"""“’E’s crazy,” some other man announced. “No one could ’ave"" ""climbed up there, much less a woman—”"""										
But I did not stay to listen. Much shaken and feeling a trifle										
"""weak, I did not attempt to stand and run on the steep rooftop, instead"										
"worming my way up the shingles—a most fortunate if unreasoning reaction; I realised afterwards that they might have “spotted” me otherwise."" ""However thin I might be, I do not make a very good snake."""										
"""Still, somehow I reached the peak of Pertelote’s building and, hugging the housetop, slipped over it to the other side."""										
That fearsome sword of illumination passed where I had just										
"""been. Safe on the shadowed side of the roof now, I watched it slice the night."""										
"""No, not safe. Next they would wheel it around to this side."" ""The thought, quite as electric as the light, galvanised me; I"""										
"""must reach another building, and another after that, and so make my escape. Springing to my feet, I ran across the steep slope of the roof towards the rear, away from that dreadful search-light, so bright that even in the shadows I could somewhat see where I was going. There! This rooftop joined directly into another not so steep. Gladly I sprang upon it—"""										
ledge into air.										
"""Crash, and I plummeted straight down as if I had stepped off a"" CHAPTER THE FOURTEENTH"										
"""AMIDST A  CASCADING CHORUS, UNMISTAKABLY  the sound  of broken glass, I plunged."""										
Without my permission my mouth opened to scream.										
"""But before it could do so, my benighted fall ended, whump, in"" something that cushioned the impact quite effectively. amidst—what?"										
"""I landed on my feet, buckled to my knees, and stayed that way"""										
"""Some poufy, airy, springy substance like a giant bustle-pad."" Much harder to identify in total darkness than the glass showering around me with a muffled splashing sound."										
"""I tasted some salty, rather sticky liquid in my open mouth."""										
"""Ordering the latter to close, I applied my sleeve to the former; yes, it hurt a bit. Blood. A shard of glass had cut my face, evidently. I felt some similar cuts, stinging so that I knew they could not be dangerously deep, on my hands."""										
"""All in all, however, it seemed to me that I had come off rather"""										
"""well. My bleeding, although upsetting, was not significant. The search- light would not find me here. I had fallen, I realised with a pang of annoyance at myself for being so stupid, through the roof of Mr."										
"Kippersalt’s hothouse, which of course occupied the very top of the building."""										
"Mr.  Kippersalt’s?  But  Flora  spoke  as  if  he   were  dead. ""Moreover, if she were the origin of the bizarre bouquets, one must deduce that this was her hothouse."""										
As these thoughts arranged themselves in my rather disordered										
"""mind, I stayed perfectly still, listening in case someone came running to see what the noise had been about. But I heard nothing except my own pounding heart and panting breath, both gradually calming as nothing alarming happened. After a bit, it seemed safe to think that my pursuers remained on the street, and had not heard breaking glass amidst the hubbub there."""										
"""Well. Being in a hothouse, I must have landed in a large plant,"" ""blessedly pliant—I could feel its stems bending under me—not a giant bustle- pad at all, although its spidery fronds all around me itched and tickled like so much horsehair."""										
"""Still listening for any danger approaching, I explored with my"" ""hands, finding nothing within arm’s length anywhere around me except"										
"more poufy vegetation. Quite large, this plant, whatever it was, brushing my face whilst my knees rested upon the potting soil in which it grew."" Just as I realised I was now safe—comparatively speaking—"										
"""my entire personage was seized by a fit of trembling that would not"										
"listen to reason, and I felt as if I could no longer remain upright. Allowing myself to slump to the ground, I burrowed between stems that gently yielded to me while the feathery fronds closed overhead. Stretched out at full length, still I found no end to—what? Most perplexing, as if  I had somehow fallen into a jungle."""										
"""Wherever I was, I quite needed to rest for a few minutes. Just a"" ""little while, until my fit of “the shakes” ceased, and then I would get away. Quaking, I lay with both hands on my chest—that is to say, on the hilt of my dagger—and closed my eyes."""										
"“Bloody blue blazes!” someone screamed. Or something of the sort. I think ""that’s what she said. One hesitates to admit that one could have fallen asleep; indeed, one almost wishes to say that one fainted, except that it could not possibly be true, as I never faint…in any event, I opened my eyes to find myself looking up at the wan light of dawn filtering greenly between a great many delicate fronds of—simple enough to tell what it was now that I could see it. I lay engulfed in bushes and bushes of asparagus."""										
"""“My babies!” some woman, presumably Flora, was shrieking."""										
"""“My ’awthorn, my trumpet flowers, my ’arebells, glass everywhere and the cold wind gusting in!”"""										
"While ashamed to confess that I’d let myself be taken so off  ""guard, I can at least say that I retained the sense to lie utterly"										
"still—except that my fingers tightened around my dagger hilt—and make no sound."""										
"""Meanwhile, footfalls pounded up a nearby staircase."""										
’ot’ouse!”										
“The villain!” continued the shrieker. “She broke in ’ere! My gone.”										
"""“Flora, calm yourself.” Pertelote’s weary voice. “She’s long"" Would that it were so."										
“Who the ’ell is she?” Indeed such was the profanity with which Flora spoke. “What’s she want with us?”										
"“I don’t know.” Pertelote sounded unsurprised at her sister’s ""language, but quite grim as she added, “I wish I did know.”"" “I’ll kill ’er! I’ll find ’er and I’ll kill ’er like I killed—” “Flora!” The force of Pertelote’s rebuke commanded a halt to"										
"""such talk, and received it. “You are to kill no one. No one ever again. Do you ’ear me?”"""										
"""Flora muttered some sulky reply, inaudible to me."""										
"""In heightened tones Pertelote demanded, “What was that? What"""										
’ave you done with Dr. Watson?”										
“Nuthin. ’Oo said I done anything?” Flora whined like a child										
"""who, denied a tantrum, resorts to tears. “Why you got to bark at me after what ’appened to my ’ot’ouse?”"""										
"""“Oh, for the love of mercy, that’s easily remedied. Send for the"" glazier.” Pertelote sounded exhausted and disgusted. “You’d better not ’ave anything to do with whatever ’appened to Dr. Watson. My breakfast is getting cold.” The sound of heavy steps signalled her departure.     ""“Thinks she can turn ’er back on me,” Flora said, sniffling, to"""										
"""her “babies,” I suppose. “Breakfast, indeed. I’m not finished, I’m not.” I heard her thump off after her sister, slamming the hothouse door behind her."""										
"""Leaving me hidden, yet trapped, in a great deal of asparagus,"" where once again I started trembling."										
"""Enola, this will not do."" Dr. Watson—"										
"""But—the brusque, almost offhand mention of killing, and of"" Think about that later. Think now how to get out of here."										
My shaking increased.										
"""In order to calm myself, as I had done so often before I closed"""										
"""my eyes and envisioned my mother’s face. Of course she was saying, “Enola, you will do quite well on your own.” Blessedly, the thought of  her no longer hurt my heart, only warmed it, and stopped my quaking at once, so that I was able again to think clearly, to plan what to do.""    ""It was, after all, not so difficult. I merely sat up amidst the"" ""asparagus, removed my boots so that I should be able to walk silently in my stocking feet, then got out of the asparagus, which grew in quite a massive, eight-foot-long galvanised steel container supported above the floor by several sawhorses. This I saw after I had climbed down and stepped softly away. I saw also the hole I had made in the roof by my involuntary entry, and broken glass scattered on asparagus, red hawthorn, white poppies…but I could not spare much attention for the hothouse, because I found myself swaying on my feet— understandably so, I realised. I had not eaten in twenty-four hours. And, reaching into my skirt pockets for the strengthening sugar candies I customarily carried with me, I  found none; I had been in too much of a hurry, and had forgotten them."""										
I keeled over.										
"""Confound everything. I needed to make a quick escape, before"" ""Carrying my boots, I padded—as silently as I could, in my"""										
"""wobbly condition—to the hothouse door, where I halted and listened.""  ""As I had hoped, I could hear the two sisters’ quarrelling voices"" ""below. As long as they continued to berate one another, I would know where both were. And any servants would no doubt be busy eavesdropping."" ""Although, on  second thought, I doubted there were  any"" ""servants. If Flora was all that she seemed to be, Pertelote could not risk having"""										
"""“’elp,” lest someone find out too much."" down the stairs."										
"""Very quietly I opened the hothouse door, then slipped out and"" ""In a front room  somewhere Flora was clamouring,  “Ye’ll"""										
"""always take care of me, won’t ye, Sissy? Answer me. Ye’ll always take care of me.”"""										
Except the time the rats ate her face.										
"""Feeling very cold as well as very shaky, I crept down more"""										
"""back stairs, through an empty kitchen, out a back door, and then I ran, tottering, not caring that the stones bruised my feet or that I was fleeing into the worst thug-rookery in London City."""										
CHAPTER THE FIFTEENTH										
"""QUAINTLY ENOUGH, MY DIRTY AND DISHEVELLED appearance served to protect me in these"""										
"""low, swarming streets. Last night’s drunkards groaned in the gutters. A girl in a grimy pinafore and not much else huddled in a doorway, her bare feet blue with cold. Boys in shabby shirts and trousers enormously too  big for them, rolled up like life-preservers around their twiggy limbs, ran after a well-upholstered woman, begging for pennies. Wives emptied slops, flannel-vested workmen trudged about their business; a man with a push-cart shouted, “’Ot buns, sausage, suet pudding! ’Ot fat pudding fer yer breakfast!” No one paid me any attention as I sat on the kerb of a pavement to put my boots back on, or as I purchased from the street  vendor an unspeakably vile sausage at which I gnawed while I limped  along. Had the lovely Miss Everseau minced into these brawling thief- ridden streets, she would at once have been set upon, robbed, stripped of her fine clothing and let go naked if at all. But a frowsy-haired, wild- eyed, cut and bruised young woman who looked as if she had been in a  fight was not noticed whatsoever."""										
"""When I arrived back at my lodging, however—the one on Dr.""    ""Watson’s street, being a great deal closer at hand—matters were different. Luckily, the sharp-eyed landlady happened to be out, but I found it necessary to bribe the gawking young girl-of-all-work into"										
"silence with a shilling, and a promise of more should she tell her"										
"mistress only that I was un-well and required my meals to be brought up to my room. And yet another shilling to provide me with a bath, but say nothing of it."""										
"""Thus it was that, by early afternoon, fed, clean, decently clad in"" ""a posy-print house-dress, the cut on my face patched with sticking- plaster, I paced my room, fretting."""										
Pertelote’s voice echoed within my mind: Flora. You are to kill no one ever again. What ’ave you done with Dr. Watson?										
"""Dear heavens, I needed to find out."""										
"If I were to help Dr. Watson—if he were yet  alive!—I ""desperately needed to know more about Flora. Her last name. Whether she had ever really killed anyone. Whether she had really been committed, and whether Dr. Watson had signed the order, giving her a motive to take revenge upon him. And I needed to find out the exact procedure for having a person put away; I knew only that it required the signatures of a  family member and a couple of"""										
medical doctors on some papers. With my various questions I needed to go to the										
"""borough office, the police, the lunatic asylum, Colney Hatch itself, and investigate—"""										
"""But with a cut, however superficial, on my face, I could not"""										
possibly go as the beautiful Miss Everseau. Even the merest pimple would have kept such a lady in seclusion until it healed.										
"""Yet I had no other disguise available to me here, not even a full"" ""veil. And even if I had, it would have been of small help, for only the lovely Miss Everseau, in my experience, could wheedle information out of officialdom."""										
Until the scratch above my mouth healed—no matter how										
"""much I moved about my room, I could not run away from this inexorable fact— until my face healed or I found a suitable disguise for it, I could do nothing."""										
I could not even leave my lodging when anyone might see me. meantime?										
Intolerable.  What   might  happen  to  Dr.  Watson   in  the What might already have happened to him?										
“Confound everything! This will not do!”										
"Leave Watson to Flora’s dubious mercies for even a day ""longer? I would never be able to face myself in the mirror again if I did so. Yet I could see no other option, except…"""										
Except to communicate with my brother Sherlock.										
And the very thought threw me instantly into a terror. The idea										
"""of going to see him was simply out of the question. Even supposing I  sent him a message; he was so clever, how easily he might trace it back  to me! To judge by the accounts I heard of Sherlock Holmes, anything—my choice of stationery, the colour of my ink, something about my handwriting, a postman’s fingerprint— any trifle might betray me to him."" I simply could not risk it."										
Yet I had to.										
"""If I did nothing, and Dr. Watson died…"""										
"""“Piper, ma’am,” came the timid voice, along with an equally"""										
"""timid knock at my door, of the girl-of-all-work, whom I had sent out for a Pall Mall Gazette."""										
"""“Thank you. Just leave it on the stand, please.”"""										
"""Once she had departed, I fetched the paper into my room and,""    ""still pacing, I scanned it for any further news of Dr. Watson. There"										
"was, of course, none. Impatiently tossing the rest of the newspaper away, I turned next to the “agony columns.” As I rather expected—for it had appeared every day since the first time I had seen it—there I found once"										
again “422555 415144423451 334244542351545351 3532513451 35325143										
"23532551 55531534 3132345"""										
5441143543251331533.”										
Deciphered: IVY DESIRE MISTLETOE WHERE WHEN LOVE YOUR CHRYSANTHEMUM.										
And still I did not know what to do.										
I knew my mother. She was simply not the “love” sort. She would not have sent for me.										
"""Yet how I wished she had. Especially now, when I was so"""										
worried about Dr. Watson. Mum would know what to do. I felt sure she would.										
If by the tiniest unlikely possibility this message had come										
"""from her—could I let the chance go by? If she had extended the hand of familial affection to me now, and if I did not respond, would she extend it ever again?"""										
"""Perhaps she intuited that I might be a trifle upset with her, and"" she wished to make amends?"										
"""Yet my mother—WHERE WHEN—surely Mum, being the one"""										
"""who had to travel into London, from the Gypsies only knew where, would prefer herself to set the time and meeting place?"""										
Might it be that someone did not wish to make me suspicious by naming the wrong sort of place?										
"""While thoughts such as these ran through my mind—circled,"" ""rather, like a dog chasing its tail—my eyes went about their own business, scanning onwards into the “agony columns,” where nothing"										
"particularly demanded their scrutiny until they happened upon a quite arresting, and mysterious, “personal” all in capital letters:"" Unattributed and unsigned."										
That was all.										
"""I peered  at it, bewildered, as I am sure a  great many other"" ""readers were, by such an enigmatic, anonymous message in such bold print that one could not help but notice it. No cipher either. Plain English."										
"Someone quite wanted to tell someone else something—but what? Part alone? Part from whom? And how otherwise than alone? No difficulty there for me; I was always alone, my very name spelled alone backwards—"""										
Then I saw.										
ENOLA TRAP TRAP ENOLA										
"""I burst out laughing, enormously relieved. It was a cipher after""     ""all, so childishly simple that only a genius such as Mum could have placed it. Thanks to her, I now knew for sure that the IVY DESIRE MISTLETOE message was a canard, undoubtedly originating from my dear brother Sherlock. And I now knew something far more important: My mother might not be motherly in any usual sense of the word, but she did care for me. In her way."""										
"""Quite a difficult task, that of assisting my brother to locate Dr. Watson, remained"""										
"""before me, but I felt more able to face it now. Envisioning my mother’s face— with warm affection—I calmed enough to sit down. Fortified in my resolve, I"""										
took pencil and a sheaf of foolscap paper in hand. could be left out?										
"""So. What did I need to communicate to my brother, and what"" ""First of all, what exactly did I know as fact?"""										
With my paper in my lap I scrawled:										
I know that Pertelote said										
"""“What’s ’e done now.” Or it could have been “What’s she done now,” sounding much the same. Meaning the sister."""										
I   know  that  Pertelote										
"""speaks of her husband Mr. Kippersalt as alive, but Flora speaks of him as deceased."""										
I know that Pertelote told										
"""Flora, “Don’t plant no more people”??? What did Flora reply? Something about putting someone in a place that would “do for him.” Did she refer to Mr. Kippersalt? Or did she refer to Dr. Watson?"""										
I   know  that  Pertelote										
"""asked her,  “What  have you    done    with    Dr."" Watson?”"										
I know that Flora dressed										
as a man; almost certainly it was she who sent the bizarre bouquets.										
I know that Pertelote told										
her not to kill anyone “ever again.” Did Flora kill Watson? A most upsetting question.										
"""In between jottings, I doodled, and now I began to draw in"" ""earnest. While far from being an artist, I have a knack for drawing"										
"people’s faces in an exaggerated sort of way, and I have found that doing so helps me think. I sketched Pertelote. (What was her real name? Had she recognised me outside her window? More questions to which I had no way of finding answers.) I drew Flora as a man complete with nose and goatee, considering that she made a much more satisfactory man than a woman, and it was narrow-minded of Pertelote to think otherwise. But how had Flora come to adopt this disguise?"""										
"""Then I remembered, and wrote:"" ""Flora said, “I ’ad to act"""										
"""the part  o yer  ’usband, now, didn’t I?”"""										
Pertelote said to  let him rest in peace.										
Although suffering a certain degree of self-doubt since my										
"""theory of Watson and the noseless soldier had proved to be so badly mistaken, still, I began to hypothesise what may have happened between Pertelote, Flora and the missing Mr. Kippersalt. Although attempting to help his wife’s sister at first, Mr. Kippersalt had eventually found Flora unbearable and had her committed to Colney Hatch. (While I sat thinking, I drew Flora as a woman, putting features similar to Pertelote’s on her.) Pertelote, however, whose life had been devoted to Flora since the unfortunate incident of the hungry rats, could not let her sister be locked up for a lunatic, even though Flora arguably was one. Forced to choose between her husband and her sister, she championed the latter, defied her husband and had Flora released from the insane asylum."""										
Flora then promptly killed Mr. Kippersalt.										
"This event apparently had not broken Pertelote’s heart. ""Pertelote had helped conceal the crime by pretending her husband was still alive. Meanwhile she had tried to take control of her sister so that no more such unfortunate incidents would occur. Flora, apparently, still intended to make trouble of some sort…"""										
Of course. made a note:										
"""Remembering another snippet of overheard conversation, I"""										
“You’ll be sorry! You an’										
any doctor ’oo signs an order for you!”										
"""Flora still held a grudge against Dr. Watson, who had signed"""										
the order to have her put away. Surely I had hit upon the truth of the matter.										
But—what had she done to him? Killed him?										
"""The thought sent a chill through me, and a pang to my heart. I"" hesitated to accept it."										
"""Musing, I sketched Flora as I had seen her, nose and face putty""    ""torn off. But it was hard—painful, I mean—to depict her that way, poor woman. I imagined two Cockney children, on their own in the most abject"										
poverty while their mother scrubbed some more fortunate woman’s floor—or										
perhaps their mother was dead already. Or perhaps she had beaten and										
"ceased to love the older child when she had come home to find the younger one’s face eaten off by rats. Or perhaps she had ceased to love the disfigured one. Mother or no mother, growing up that way, so disfigured, was enough to make anyone insane."""										
"""Shuddering, I looked down at my drawing to find that in my"" ""sympathy, or perhaps in a sort of understanding beyond logic, I was turning Flora to flowers."""										
"""I had given her a convolvulus mouth, an upside-down rosebud"""										
"""for a nose, and now I went on to give her poppies for eyes, and for hair, asparagus fronds, of course, wild and stringy. She made quite a bizarre bouquet."""										
"""Ye gods in white nightgowns, I was back where I had started."" ""All of  the flowers except the rose—which, upside down,"""										
symbolised the opposite of love—had been in the original bouquet I had seen in Mrs. Watson’s parlour.										
And I quite understood all of them except the asparagus. What on earth was the meaning of asparagus?										
"""For the matter of that, why did Flora grow so very much"" asparagus in her hothouse?"										
For bouquets? She had enough fronds for a thousand. To eat?										
"""She could have supplied all of Holywell Street, but I had seen no evidence that any spears had ever been cut—"""										
Spears.										
"""That might be it, I reflected. A spear, a stabbing weapon: hatred"""										
"""or death. Why, the name of the plant itself included the sentiment in a way; a- spear-a-gus—"""										
Spear of Gus.										
"""I sat straight up with a cry, scattering papers left and right, for""    ""in that moment of blazing-white electric-search-light illumination I saw it all, I understood everything, seemingly insurmountable difficulties fell away, and I knew exactly what to do."""										
CHAPTER THE SIXTEENTH										
"""THERE WOULD BE NO NEED, AFTER ALL, TO RISK my freedom by"										
"writing a letter to my"" brother Sherlock."										
"""Instead, nearly giddy with excitement, I seized upon a fresh""    piece of paper and began to compose a communication of another sort. ""Several moments later, I finished, thus:"""										
5453411155 43535343 315323435155 3211543132 114455231533 114413										
125334 3334 13421414513444112354. E.H.										
I did not allow myself to hesitate over my bravado in signing										
"""this with my own initials. I daresay I resembled my brother Sherlock not only nasally but in other ways; it seemed that, like him, I needed to  have my little moments of drama."""										
"""And surprise. For which reason, I have withheld from you,"""										
"""gentle reader, the sense of the above message at this time, and while I am sure you are capable of deciphering it, I hope you will refrain for the few remaining pages of this narrative."""										
"""Once I had inked a final copy of my cipher, blotted it, folded it""  ""and sealed it with wax, I considered how best to convey it to the Pall Mall Gazette, as soon as possible so that it would appear in tomorrow morning’s edition. I could not possibly trust this important errand to some street urchin. But a uniformed messenger boy or a licenced commissionaire could be questioned and traced back to me. Eventually, rolling my eyes, I realised I was on my own, as usual, and rose to see about it. With a combination of pencil and “recondite emollient” I"										
"coloured the sticking plaster on my face to be, I hoped, less"" ""noticeable, at least after dark—I could not have attempted this undertaking in"""										
"""daylight. But at nightfall, in my rusty-black dress and shawl, wearing"										
"my wig and my most wide-brimmed face-shadowing hat with a strip of veil attached for good measure, I ventured forth to Fleet Street."""										
All went well. An indifferent night-clerk who hardly looked at										
"""me took my money and my message, promising to send it straight along to the printing press."""										
"""Good. But I knew that, if I returned to my lodging now,"" ""ordered supper like a sensible young lady, and prepared for slumber, I would not be able to sleep. I still felt electrified through and through with anticipatory excitement, plus worry—about Dr. Watson. If he was where I deduced he was, he would survive this one additional night, and all would be well. Over and over again I reviewed my reasoning with the same conclusion. Yet I could not seem to find confidence in my own mental ability. What if I were overlooking something? What if I were mistaken? What if I were a stupid, blundering girl who should have run straight to the great Sherlock Holmes, a man of action, and let him  handle everything?"""										
"""I could not bear to go back to my room and wait. Instead,"""										
"""emboldened by the dagger riding in my corset and feeling myself to be a sufficiently inconspicuous figure in the dark, I made my way back into  the “abominable little labyrinths of tenements crowded and huddled up together, to the perpetual exclusion of light and air, and the consistent fostering of dirt, disease and vice…the stifling courts, lanes, yards and alleys shouldering one another and cabining, cribbing, and confining  whole nests of poverty-stricken inhabitants,” as the Penny Illustrated Paper would have it—in other words, to the neighbourhood behind Holywell Street, where that morning I had seen a girl wearing a pinafore with no dress under it, her bare feet blue with cold."""										
At this time of night the streets swarmed with half-drunken										
"""men and women, street vendors hawking cheap shellfish or ginger beer or sweets, and on every block a painted female selling something else. And beggars"""										
"""—entertainers, some would have preferred to be called. I stopped to  watch a grubby man who had trained a rat to stand on its hind legs in his hand whilst he plied a white handkerchief to make it represent in quick succession a Roman senator in toga, an Anglican clergyman in alb, then a white-wigged barrister, and with the addition of a second handkerchief, a lady being presented at court. He"""										
attracted a laughing crowd which dispersed like smoke the instant he pulled off										
his cap; I was the only one to give him a penny. Then I went off to find the children left behind—or left entirely—by their gin-seduced parents. It had been too long since I had ministered to London’s poor.										
"""Not just days, but weeks."""										
Finding ragged boys huddled together under an archway like										
"""puppies, lacking food to offer them, I gave each a shilling—and then had to run away because they sprang up to alert every other little vagabond  on the street; had I not hidden myself I would have been mobbed, my pockets ripped off."""										
So it went throughout most of the night. Eventually I was able										
"""to locate the girl I most wanted to find, shivering in her pinafore, in the area where I had seen her before. Taking her to a used-clothing store, where I knocked up the proprietor, I supplied the girl with clothing, shoes and stockings as well as money for food. Dazed and suspicious, she gave no thanks, nor did I expect any. Blessed weariness and a certain inner peace were my reward. A few hours before dawn I returned to my lodging, at last ready to sleep."""										
Or so I hoped. I suppose I did doze for a while. But daylight										
"""found me wide awake, dressing with care so as to be prepared for any contingency—money, dagger, bandaging, biscuits, sewing-kit, pencil and"										
"paper, latch-keys, smelling-salts, head-scarf, spare stockings in my"										
"bosom enhancer, plus a clean handkerchief, gloves, more money and—I hoped never to forget again—some candies in my pockets. Despite my best efforts to be calm and efficient, I found myself in such a nervous state that I could barely touch the breakfast the girl brought up for me."""										
"""Well before it was time, I hovered, wigged and hatted but"" ""unable to sit, at the window from which I could view the Watson residence across the street."""										
I watched the parlour-maid come out with a bucket of soapy										
"""water, get down on her knees and scrub the stone steps white, as she did every weekday morning."""										
"""It was going to be a while. Sighing, I forced myself to sit down.""    ""With my fingertips I played imaginary melodies upon the windowsill as if it were a piano. Or perhaps I should say imaginary disharmonies, for I have never"""										
taken a piano lesson in my life.										
"""The milkmaid passed, as usual, but leading a donkey—not as"""										
"""usual; someone on the street must be so ill as to require fresh, warm donkey milk."""										
I studied the humble creature as if I had never seen such a long-eared animal before.										
"""After milkmaid and donkey had passed from sight, I drummed"" with my fingertips on the windowsill some more."										
"""The Watson family’s parlour-maid, who had long since finished"" ""scrubbing the steps, came out again to give similar attention to the windowpanes."""										
"""The ice-man’s wagon trundled around the corner, drawn by a"""										
"""wise old nag which stopped at each house on its own whilst its master made deliveries. During the considerable length of time it took them to progress through the street, I watched with fullest attention to every detail, including the colour of the horse; not content today with “grey” or “bay,” I decided it was a “roan.”"""										
The ice-man and his grizzled nag disappeared from view. My										
"""fingers became tired of tapping and lay still. No longer in a state of fevered anticipation, but feeling a leaden ache of longing, I waited."" And waited."										
And scarcely noticed at first the barouche that rattled in from										
"""the north, for I was expecting a cab. Idly I watched the carriage, which had its top down, as it rolled near, expecting that it might carry some elderly lady, accompanied by nurse, out for a daily airing. Now I could see the passengers—"""										
"I shot to my feet and screamed with joy at the same time as I clapped both hands over my mouth as if my brother might hear me. ""Not, to my astonishment, my brother Sherlock."""										
"""Unmistakable with his top-hat and monocle, his heavy gold"""										
"""watch-chain draped across an ample expanse of silk waistcoat, it was my other"""										
"""brother, Mycroft!"""										
"""The one who did not trouble himself to look for me, only sat on"" ""his throne and gave orders. The one whose customary orbit of home,"										
"government office and Diogenes Club never varied. The one who could not be bothered."""										
Or such had been my previous suppositions.										
Quite mistaken. Evidently Mycroft had tried to find me; he had										
"""come closer than Sherlock to mastering the floral code Mum and I used, and had come perilously close to understanding what would lure me in: for plainly it was he who had placed in the Pall Mall Gazette the cipher reading IVY DESIRE MISTLETOE WHERE WHEN LOVE YOUR CHRYSANTHEMUM."""										
As evidenced by the fact that it was he who had responded to										
my reply: “5453411155 43535343 315323435155 3211543132 114455231533										
114413 125334 3334 13421414513444112354. E.H.”										
"""And now, gentle reader, you shall know the meaning of this, if"""										
"""you have not already yourself deciphered it, thus: Arrange the alphabet into five lines of five letters each, excluding Z. In the cipher, the first two numbers refer to the fifth letter of the fourth line, T. Then, fifth letter of the third line, O. Fourth letter of the first line, D. First letter of the first line, A. Fifth letter of the fifth line, Y."" “TODAY.”"										
In full: “TODAY NOON COLNEY HATCH ASYLUM ASK FOR MR KIPPERSALT.”										
"""Signed, “E.H.”"""										
This was the summons Mycroft had read in this morning’s										
"""edition of the Pall Mall Gazette—a summons he could hardly refuse, no matter how much it puzzled him."""										
I could only imagine what had happened when Mycroft had										
"""arrived at Colney Hatch and “Mr. Kippersalt” had been brought forth. But obviously the imperious Mr. Holmes—either of my brothers,  quintessentially upper-class and accustomed to being obeyed,  could have filled  that role—"""										
"""Mycroft had prevailed in liberating “Mr. Kippersalt,” for there in the other side"""										
"""of the barouche, as it pulled up to his home, sat—yes—eureka, I had got it right! The other man was definitely Dr. Watson."""										
"""The kindly physician himself, looking a bit less than jaunty, as"""										
"""was understandable considering his recent ordeal, but plainly alive and whole."""										
And widely smiling.										
The scene that followed could not have been more satisfactory										
"""to this observer. Alerted by the parlour-maid’s scream as she saw who  was in the open carriage approaching the house, Mrs. Watson hurtled out  of the front door and dashed on flying feet down the steps. As Dr. Watson rather shakily emerged from the barouche, his wife embraced him right there on the pavement."""										
Even better: Here came a hansom cab with horse most illegally										
"""at the gallop, and as the conveyance jolted to a halt, out of it sprang a tall, whip- thin man who shook his old friend’s hand again and again. Never have I seen my brother Sherlock happier."""										
"Grinning with  delight even as my heart ached—a familiar ""bittersweet feeling, that of enjoying affection from afar—I watched until they all went inside, the cab and the barouche drove away, and it became apparent that the moment of drama was over."""										
"""Then, still smiling but with a sigh, I set about packing my bags."""										
"""It was time for me to return to my room in the humbler, but more distant and secure, residence of Mrs. Tupper."""										
CHAPTER THE SEVENTEENTH										
IN THE NEXT EDITION OF THE PALL MALL GAZETTE I noticed the following in the personal										
advertisements:										
"To E.H.: Yours are the laurels. We humbly thank you. S.H. & M.H. ""What? How surprising, and how very gratifying!"""										
"""Comfortable in my old room at Mrs. Tupper’s, in a dressing-"""										
"""gown, with my feet propped on a hassock, I read it again: To E.H.: Yours are the laurels. We humbly thank you. S.H. & M.H."""										
I felt quite a foolish smile take charge of my patched-up face as I enjoyed this most unexpected acknowledgement.										
"""Quite handsome of my brothers, I thought, to take any notice of""    ""me in the matter, which had been simple enough once I had understood about the asparagus."""										
A spear of Gus.										
Gus being short for Augustus.										
Who could be none other than Augustus Kippersalt. Upon first										
"""finding the name of Augustus Kippersalt in the borough record-books I  had dismissed him from my mind, as he had recently been sent to a lunatic asylum, and so, I had thought at the time, could not be the Mr."										
"Kippersalt I was seeking."""										
"""In a sense I had been correct, as the Mr. Kippersalt I was"" seeking no longer existed."										
But Pertelote’s husband had been Augustus Kippersalt.										
"""Who, I  realised because of my interesting experience lying"" ""amidst a great deal of asparagus and my even more interesting asparagus- related insight, did not reside in Colney Hatch at all. In fact, I would wager my nose that he was “planted” in quite an oversized hothouse box. I believed this so strongly that—a trifle regretfully, for I rather liked Pertelote—I had sent to Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard an anonymous note detailing my suspicions and suggesting that he might want to check into the matter."""										
"""As the murder of Augustus Kippersalt had been concealed, no"" death certificate had ever been filed."										
"""So, as  he was still legally alive, Mr. Kippersalt might be"" ""declared mad. How Flora had forged the paperwork I did not know and  might never know. Neither did I know how she—probably disguised as a man— had lured Dr. Watson out of his club, or upon what pretext she had arranged for the “body snatchers” to put him away. But in essence, it was obvious to me how she had taken her revenge."""										
"""“I put ’im where ’e put me,” she had said, or something of the"" ""like, to her sister whilst I listened from outside the window. “The place ’ll do for ’im.”"""										
I imagined that being confined to Colney Hatch for any length										
"""of time might indeed have “done for” Dr. Watson, but I hoped that, having spent only a week there, he had come to no great harm."""										
"""It was perhaps fortunate that I had cut my face, as this circumstance kept me"""										
"""from acting too soon, and thereby perhaps giving myself away."""										
Not until nearly a fortnight later—well after Dr. Watson had										
resumed the routine of his medical practice—did the lovely Miss Everseau once again pay a social call upon the gentle-hearted Mrs. Watson.										
With my “recondite emollients” subtly disguising my almost-										
"""healed face and with my little birthmark glued to my temple, with my wig in quite a stylish coif secured over my own incorrigible hair and with  the very latest in hats pinned to the front of the wig, I daresay I  looked fetching, if not positively divine, in lace-trimmed buttercup-and- cream mousseline. For this occasion I carried a bouquet of primrose,  apple blossom and mignonette: primrose for happiness yet to come, apple blossom for good health and mignonette—I hoped Mary Morstan Watson would understand the mignonette as expressing my very high estimation of her."										
"The mignonette itself is an unassuming little blossom, but it gives off the sweetest fragrance. It is a gift for a person of remarkable virtue hidden by equally remarkable modesty."""										
As I stood once more on her well-scrubbed doorstep and sent										
"""in my calling-card, Miss Viola Everseau, I did not doubt that she would see me, but I wondered whether she would confide in me as before.""     more."										
"""My mission, you see, was to satisfy my curiosity. Nothing"" me."										
"""Although as it turned out, much, much more was in store for"""										
“Miss Everseau!” As artless as a spray of mignonette in her										
"""meek taupe at-home dress, she hurried to me with both hands extended in welcome. “How very thoughtful, how very exceptional of you to call again! And what lovely flowers!” She buried her face in their aroma before handing them over to the parlour-maid. “Really, you are too kind.”"""										
every kindness.”										
"“I beg to disagree. I believe you to be a woman who deserves “But I want for nothing now. My happiness is complete; I am ""sure you know, John is back, safe and sound.”"""										
to match yours.”										
"""“So I heard, with great relief, although not such, I imagine, as"" ""“Oh! I quite nearly fainted with joy when I saw him. Please, do""  sit down! Let me ring for some refreshment.” I need not have worried"										
about her reticence; she showed every indication of wishing to tell me the whole story. I										
"""needed only to ask her in a general way, as we sipped tea and nibbled lemon-"""										
"""wafers, whether the police deserved any credit for her husband’s safe return."""										
the matter.”										
"“Not at all. The police confess themselves utterly at a loss in ""“Mr. Sherlock Holmes, then?”"""										
“Even he remains confounded. We have no idea who the villain										
"""was…what happened, you see, is that a man John did not recognise at all came into his club asking for him, and told him that Mr. Sherlock Holmes most urgently requested his assistance in a matter of some delicacy. John says he became a bit suspicious when the messenger told him to leave his cards, his black bag and so forth behind the davenport so as not to  appear to be a medical man—it was an odd-looking fellow, you see, something wrong with his face— but still, he seemed plausible, and of course Mr. Holmes has often summoned John on queer adventures. So off he went like a lamb to the slaughter, and no sooner had he followed his betrayer around the first corner than a constable and some other  gentleman leapt out of a black carriage and seized him. Naturally he struggled against them and protested, ‘What are you doing? I cannot be delayed; I am on my way to meet Mr. Sherlock Holmes!’ Then the one with the odd face said, ‘You see how it is?’ and the constable said, ‘Yes, indeed. Classic monomania. Come along, Mr. Kippersalt.’”"""										
"""“Kippersalt?” I exclaimed, playing the part of one who knew"""										
nothing of the matter. “Have I not recently seen that name mentioned in the news?”										
"""“Yes, it was the name of that man who seems to have been"" murdered and buried in a hothouse.”"										
"""“Might there be a connection, I wonder?”"""										
“Mr. Holmes thinks so. He is looking into it. At any rate these										
"""people in the black carriage thought John’s name was Kippersalt. He told them, ‘You’re terribly mistaken; my name is Watson! Dr. John Watson!’ but they continued to lay hands upon him, saying, ‘Now, now, Mr. Kippersalt, come along quietly,’ and when John insisted, a nurse appeared out of the carriage, saying, ‘Do please calm yourself, Mr. Kippersalt,’ and he felt the jab of a syringe. The next thing he knew he was in the lunatic  asylum, and no one would"""										
"""listen to him. The misunderstanding was quite enough to drive one mad, he says,"""										
if one were not deranged already.”										
"""“How very clever,” I murmured, now seeing how Flora had"""										
"""combined Kippersalt’s name and Watson’s fame to the downfall of the latter. “How very diabolical,” I amended."""										
"""“Diabolical, indeed!”"""										
"The maid came in  with my offering of flowers attractively ""presented in a green glass vase, placing it on top of the spinnet. The fragrance of mignonette filled the pleasant little parlour—much more pleasant without any bizarre bouquets in it."""										
"""After the maid had departed, I asked,  “Is it known who"" arranged this fiendishly legal abduction?”"										
"""“We cannot yet say, but John thinks it was tit-for-tat by some"""										
"""insane person whom he may have committed in his career. When he can spare time from his practice, he is studying his medical records for clues.”"""										
"""“Who found him, then? Mr. Sherlock Holmes?”"""										
“Not at all!”										
I quite expected her then to credit Mr. Mycroft Holmes.										
"""But instead she said, “The identity of John’s rescuer is perhaps""    ""the most remarkable aspect of the entire affair. It seems…” For the first time Mrs. Watson hesitated, and I did not press her, for I felt myself to be on questionable ground, ethically. But with a little frown and a lift of her chin, Mrs. Watson leaned towards me. “I cannot think what possibly can be the harm of telling you, Miss Everseau: Miss Enola Holmes was instrumental in returning my husband to me.”"""										
“Miss Enola Holmes?”										
“Mr. Sherlock Holmes’s younger sister.”										
“Sister? I did not know he had a sister.” The keen interest in										
"""my voice was not feigned, for in that moment I realised how very useful Mrs."""										
Watson’s disclosures could be to me.										
"""“It is not generally known,” she explained, “for the girl is a"" ""worry to her family, very willful and boyish, indeed to the extent that…well, her brothers do not exactly know where she is.”"""										
“I beg your pardon?”										
Mrs. Watson then spoke at considerable length; I will spare the										
"""gentle reader her narration of how I had come to be on my own, hiding in London. What mattered to me was that her account tallied exactly with my own estimation of my brothers’ knowledge of me: with one enormously important exception, which I uncovered somewhat as follows."""										
“You have never met this extraordinary girl?” I inquired. matter.”										
“No! We have no idea how or why she involved herself in the										
“You have only just learned of her existence?”										
"""“Well, no, I did hear—you see, my husband confided in me—"""										
he had become so concerned about his friend’s emotional state that he took it upon himself to contact Dr. Ragostin.”										
“Dr. Ragostin?” I echoed with appropriate incomprehension.										
"“The so-called Scientific Perditorian.”  Her tone carried as ""much scorn as her sweet voice was capable of conveying. “A charlatan, John now thinks.”"""										
“Your husband learned nothing from this Dr. Ragostin?” “He never even saw the man. He dealt only with a young woman who served as secretary.”										
"""“I wonder whether it could be my friend Marjory Peabody,” I""  ""murmured in absent-minded tones. “Terrible what the decline in agriculture has done to the old landed families, you know. Marjory has been forced to take a"""										
position with  some sort of doctor.  Do you  know Dr. Ragostin’s secretary’s										
name?”										
“I’m sorry to say I do not. I know nothing of her.”										
"""“Not even her appearance? Is she fair-haired, and plump?”"" no notice of her.”"										
“I really cannot say. My husband barely spoke of her; he took My demeanour as Mrs. Watson told me these words of										
"""salvation remained, I think and hope, quite civilised, as did my manner as she continued to detail the mystery surrounding Enola Holmes and her role in the rescue of Dr. Watson. But all the while, as eventually the tale was told and I arose, congratulated Mrs. Watson, embraced her, with fervid good wishes, and departed—a perfect lady—during all of this my"										
"mind, like a dirty-faced child, leapt and shrieked, turned cartwheels and"										
"displayed the most immodest hand- stands whilst joyously yelling: Hooray for the simple, goodhearted Dr. Watson!"""										
A few weeks ago I had written on a list: He (my brother Sherlock)										
knows I use the first name Ivy.										
One must assume that he										
now knows from Dr. Watson that a young woman named Ivy Meshle worked for the world’s first and only Scientific Perditorian.										
"""But from what Mrs. Watson had just said, one must assume"" nothing of the sort!"										
Unless—could she have been coached to say this to entrap me?										
"""No, I felt sure not. It was simply not logically possible, for no"""										
"""one could have known or expected I would be visiting, in whatever guise. Moreover, Mrs. Watson’s observations had the ring of  truth  about them, the tender forbearance of a wife towards a somewhat obtuse and absent- minded husband. As I walked away from Dr. Watson’s residence, mentally I invoked blessings upon his kindly and rather dense head forever. Heaven love the man, he attached no importance to Miss Meshle; he failed to remember her last name, let alone her first."""										
"""And such being the case, even if he had confessed to Sherlock"""										
"""Holmes concerning his visit to that charlatan, Dr. Ragostin, he had not told my brother anything of Ivy Meshle."""										
"""Hence, great happiness to me:"" I could be Ivy Meshle again."										
I could continue to pursue my life’s calling.										
"""(Necessarily I restrained myself from skipping, rather than"" ""walking at a well-bred pace, as I trod the very respectable pavements of Oxford Street.)"""										
"""And someday, after I had come of age and could no longer"""										
"""legally be sent hither and yon against my will, someday, nearly seven long years away but nevertheless worth dreaming upon, someday I would pursue that calling under my own name."""										
"""Enola  Holmes,  the  world’s  first  and  only  real  private"" consulting Scientific Perditorian."										
"""APRIL, 1889"""										
"""“FLORA HARRIS,” SAYS THE GREAT DETECTIVE, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, to his friend and"""										
"""colleague Dr. Watson as they relax after an excellent dinner at Simpson’s-in-the- Strand. “Or ’Arris, I suppose I ought to say, as she is eminently qualified to a place in the ranks of those born within the  sound of the bells of St. Mary-le- Bow.”"""										
mean.”										
"""Only a little slow to follow, Watson nods.  “Cockney, you"" ""“Precisely. Flora Harris and her sister, Frances, five years older."" ""Flora did not marry. Frances, however, married above her station. She and her husband started a shop in Holywell Street, Chaunticleer’s; Frances took it into her head to start calling herself Pertelote.”"" ""“Clever,” Watson remarks, admiring a handsome Havana cigar"""										
"""he intends to enjoy in a few minutes, “but a bit irregular.”"" “The entire  family seems to have been more than a  bit ""irregular, as you’ve discovered to your discomfiture.”"""										
far.”										
“I have? I can’t say I recognise anything you’ve told me so “The older sister’s husband’s name was Augustus Kippersalt.” “Ah!” Watson drops his cigar upon the tablecloth and does not bother to retrieve it.										
"“His wife’s younger sister resided with them. A bit of an odd ""arrangement, I should say. Augustus Kippersalt eventually had her put away on the basis of George Sandism.”"""										
Watson sits up straight for a moment of mental illumination										
"""and excitement. “I remember now! It was not just that the woman dressed like a man; there were a variety of unsettling indications that she ought to be separated from the body public so as not to infect it. An unhealthy relationship between the sisters, an accidental facial disfigurement concerning which the younger was bitter to the point of monomania—”""  ""“Oh, Flora Harris is a madwoman, right enough. No one is"""										
"""challenging your diagnosis, Doctor.”"""										
“So you are saying it was she who—was she the man who										
came and fetched me from my club?” Dr. Watson’s incredulity has grown by the moment.										
"""“Yes, indeed. And she who gave you that nasty week in Colney"""										
"""Hatch.” Holmes goes on to explain how Mrs. Pertelote Kippersalt, herself also perhaps a bit mad, had chosen her sister over the husband, releasing the former from the asylum at the expense of the latter’s life. The  murder had apparently upset the older sister, who had kept a tight rein  on the younger one for a long time after. But eventually Pertelote Kippersalt’s vigilance had lessened,  and Flora Harris had managed to orchestrate her revenge upon the doctor who had signed her commitment papers."""										
"""“But it’s all so absurdly simple,” says Watson placidly, once"""										
"""more at ease in his chair, when everything has been explained to him."" ""“Now, in retrospect, yes. But at the time…” A very strange""    ""expression ghosts across the great detective’s face. As if for comfort, Sherlock Holmes produces pipe and tobacco pouch from an inner pocket of his cutaway jacket. “At the time,” he admits in a low, strained voice, “it simply never occurred to me.”"""										
“All’s well that ends well.”										
"""“In your goodness of heart you do not reproach me, my dear"" ""Watson, but I reproach myself for neglecting an obvious avenue of inquiry. You would be in Colney Hatch still if it were not for my sister.”"""										
"Although fully aware that Watson knows of his  sister’s ""existence—they had, after all, both been present the night Enola, in a nun’s black garb, had burst into Watson’s house with a half-killed lady who required the doctor’s care—although there has been more than sufficient opportunity, this is the first time the great detective has willingly mentioned her to his close friend Watson. As the touchy topic is introduced, the good doctor is careful not to react, not even to blink."""										
"""“Ah. Your sister,” he says as if he and Holmes converse about"" Enola as routinely as they mention Holmes’s monograph on the identification of"										
"""different types of cigar ashes. “What do you make of your sister, Holmes?”"""										
There is a silence which extends for several moments as the										
"""great detective stares, focused on nothing within the gentlemen’s saloon at Simpson’s, his expression most difficult to read."""										
in me.”										
"""“I think,” he says at last, “that it is a great pity she will not trust"""										
###										
"""SCUTARI, TURKEY,"""										
1855										
(The faint of heart may proceed directly to Chapter the First.)										
ON THE HILLTOP ABOVE THE HARBOUR STANDS THE huge square										
"""building that used to be the barracks for the Turkish army, but is now Hell’s home on earth. The stench of bloated carcasses—cow, horse, human— floating in the sea is nothing compared with the stench within that massive masonry cube. Shoulder to shoulder on its stone floors lie wounded, sick, or dying men, mostly young British soldiers, many without even a straw pallet beneath them or a blanket for covering. Hell is relatively quiet; so deeply desperate, helpless, and weak are the patients that they languish almost soundless, dying by the thousands of infection, gangrene, and cholera."""										
"""One of those lying insensible, not likely to live through the  approaching night, is a young fellow just twenty years of age. By his  side crouches a frightened girl even younger than he, his bride of less than a year, who has come to this awful place with him. Most of the men’s wives have come along, trailing the regiments with babes in arms, for no way is provided for the soldiers to send home their pay, and separated from their husbands the women will starve."""										
Many of them are starving anyway.										
"""Watching her husband die, the girl maintains the mute, shivering, and mostly silent misery characteristic of Scutari, for she has seen too much death; she realises that she herself might well die, and she does not  dare to hope that the new life she carries within her thin body can survive."""										
"""A little farther down the ward, a woman wearing a shapeless grey wrapper and cap washes crusted mucus from a soldier’s eyes. Since recently arriving from England, the small group of determined nurses has managed somewhat to improve matters in Scutari. They have scrubbed filthy floors, bathed filthy bodies, boiled the lice out of some of the blankets. The soldier with the infected eyes may go blind, but, as fewer than half of those who enter Scutari come out alive, he should consider himself  lucky."""										
"""“Keep your hands away from your eyes, now,” the nurse tells him, “no matter"""										
"""how much you wish to rub them, for your touch transfers foul matter into them.”"""										
"""Walking through the eight miles of wards comes another nurse, a thin, aristocratic woman who carries a lamp, for night is falling. Her oval face is remarkably sweet, symmetrical, and placid. Her hair, parted precisely in the middle, lies smooth like brown wings beneath a white lace cap that ties under her chin. Slowly she progresses, pausing at the foot of many a patient’s pallet and speaking in a soft, melodious voice. “The letter to your mother has been sent, Higgins. . . . Not at all, you are very welcome. Did you eat today, O’Reilly? Good. I should have a blanket for you tomorrow. Did you use a fresh sponge, Walters?” As she pauses where the nurse ministers to the man going blind: “Good. Go to your quarters, now; it’s getting dark.”"""										
"""As the nurse leaves, the Lady with the Lamp walks forward again, to  pause where the trembling girl crouches beside her unconscious husband. After a look at him, the lady sets down her lamp, seats herself likewise on the cold stone floor, takes the man’s blue bare feet into her lap, and begins briskly to rub them with her hands, perhaps warming them a bit."" ""“It is the only comfort I can give him,” she tells the girl, who sits mute and huge-eyed by his side. “You must go now, child. You may come  back in the morning.”"""										
"""The thin young wife gazes back at her, wordless and imploring."""										
"""The lady replies to that gaze as if to a spoken plea. “I know you wish"										
"to stay with him, child, but the rule is that there are to be no females in the wards at night, and if we do not obey, the army may send us back to the kitchen or, even worse, back to England.” Her soft voice never rises, and her face, although thin, shows no weariness, resentment, or frustration; it remains angelically serene even as she says, “If that happens, then there will be no nursing for the unfortunates, not even in the daytime. So we must go. Do you understand?”"""										
"""And, assuming that the girl can hear her, perhaps she thinks the child does understand. Although the younger woman fails to move, there is no defiance in her eyes, only wretched exhaustion."""										
"""“Come.” Placing the dying man’s feet gently back on the floor, the lady takes her lamp and rises. “Come, I will walk with you and light your way.” She offers the girl her hand, and after a moment the young bride reaches up to accept that warm grip. The older woman helps her to her feet. For a moment the two of them stand, hand in hand, over the—one might as well call it a body."""										
"""The girl’s thin lips move three times before, with an odd plangent abruptness,"""										
"""she speaks. “’E’s my ’usband,” she states helplessly and unnecessarily."" ""“I know, dear, but you still cannot—”"""										
"""“’E’s a good man,” the girl goes on without seeming to hear. “’Is name is Tupper. Thomas Tupper. Somebody besides me oughter remember.”""    ""“Yes, of course they should,” soothes the Lady with the Lamp. Those who survive Scutari will make famous the comfort of her quiet voice. “Come along now, Mrs. Thomas Tupper.”"""										
CHAPTER THE FIRST										
"""“MISS MESHLE,” SAID MRS. TUPPER AS SHE TOOK my empty plate"""										
"""away, “if ye ’ave time to set an’ talk a while . . .”"""										
"""Before my elderly, deaf-as-a-dumpling landlady finished the sentence,  she had my fullest attention, because she spoke softly instead of  shouting as she usually did, but mostly because, due to her deafness, any attempt at conversation was most unusual. Indeed, her request to “talk” was unprecedented. Generally, after one of her frugal suppers (tonight, spring onions being in season, it had been fish-and-onion soup with bread pudding), I would give her a nod of thanks and retreat behind the closed door of my room, where I could rid myself of the poufs, baubles, and underpinnings of “Miss Meshle,” sit in my overstuffed armchair with my feet upon a hassock, and be comfortable."""										
"""“I could use a bit of advice,” Mrs. Tupper continued as she took the white crockery soup tureen and placed it on the stove as if it were a pot, then scraped leftover bread pudding into the slop pail rather than into the cat’s dish. Greatly wondering what ailed her, I nodded and gestured, signalling my willingness to listen."""										
"""“Let’s go set down,” Mrs. Tupper said."""										
"""I was, of course, already sitting, at the table, but we moved to the shabby “parlour suite” at the other end of Mrs. Tupper’s single room—her house, although clean, was little more than a hovel—and there, as I took  a chair, Mrs. Tupper hunched on the edge of the horsehair sofa, fixing me with her watery grey gaze."""										
"""“It hain’t none of my business, but I’ve noticed there’s more to you  than meets the eye,” she said as if she felt it necessary to explain why she would confide in such a youngster. “You hain’t just a working-girl like you seems to be, not when ye can pass as a street beggar or yit a lady to the manor born, an’ when ye took sich pains goin’ out as a nun—”"" ""I made no attempt to hide my shock; she was not supposed to know this."										
"If word were to reach my brothers, Mycroft and Sherlock, enabling them to locate my place of lodging in London’s East End, my freedom would be greatly endangered."""										
But Mrs. Tupper seemed not to notice my consternation. “—in the dark of										
"""night tryin’ to ’elp them as is cold an’ ’ungry,” she went on, “an’"										
"where ye get the means, dear only knows.” Peering up at me, for she had never been tall, and a dowager’s hump had shortened her yet more, she added, “Ye’re a good person, Miss Meshle, or whatever yer real name may be—”"""										
"""“Enola Holmes,” I whispered involuntarily. Luckily, she could not possibly hear me and went on without noticing."""										
"""“—an’ ye’re a force t’be reckoned with, an’ I’m ’oping ye can ’elp me.”"" ""Often enough she had helped me, nursing me through colds or fevers or, once, injuries, when a garroter had attacked me. She kept a motherly eye— while I could only imagine what it might be like to have a normal mother, Mrs. Tupper, pressing blood sausage upon me at breakfast and exhorting me out of my fits of melancholia, surely resembled a proper mum. Of course I wanted to help her. “Good heavens,” I exclaimed, leaning forward in my turn, “what is wrong?”"""										
"""Reaching into her apron pocket, she produced an envelope that had evidently come in the day’s post, which she handed to me. Nodding and gesturing as if I, not she, were deaf, she encouraged me to open this and read the enclosure."""										
"""The daylight from Mrs. Tupper’s downstairs window—of which she was rightfully proud, as windows were taxed—the light was waning, but so heavily was the missive printed, in densely black India ink, that I could see it clearly. Slashed across thick paper in the most brutal handwriting I had ever seen, angular and bristling and penned with weapon force, each stroke a club at one end and a rapier at the other, it read:"""										
"""CARRIER PIGEON, DELIVER YOUR BIRD- BRAINEDMESSAGE AT ONCE OR YOU WILL BE SORRY YOU EVER LEFT SCUTARI."""										
"""Scutari? Reading the missive twice, I could make no sense of it other than the"""										
"""threat. Yet, as arresting as the message was, the spiked handwriting alarmed me more."""										
“Do you recognise the writing?” I demanded. “Eh?” Mrs. Tupper put her ear-trumpet to her ear.										
"""Into it I shouted, “Do you know this hand?” already guessing the answer, for if the anonymous threatener had thought she would know his writing,  he would"""										
"""have disguised it, perhaps pasting together letters cut out of newspapers, as was"""										
the wont of popular-fiction villains.										
"""“Eh? Know the man? How would I?” Confound everything, at times such as this I quite wished I could just scribble her a note. But, like most common folk, Mrs. Tupper could read only slowly and with difficulty."" “The writing!” I tried again."										
"""“Never seen it. I’d remember, wouldn’t I, a thorn-patch like that?” Gesticulating, she expressed alarm and bewilderment. “I think ’e’s mistaken me for someone else.”"""										
"""“Maybe,” I said doubtfully, as Tupper was hardly a common name. Indeed, I had never met any other Tupper. But it was, of course, her long-dead husband’s name, and there might be a few of his surviving relatives in London. “Did Mr. Tupper have family?”"""										
"""“Eh?” She put the trumpet to her ear. Into it I bawled, “Mr. Tupper!”"" ""“Died in Scutari.” Mrs. Tupper clutched herself as if cold, although it was a fine May evening. “Almost thirty-five years ago an’ I’ll never forget it. ’Orrible place. Like ’ell on earth.”"""										
"""I lapsed back in my comfortless chair, scolding myself: Scutari. Of course."""										
"The British headquarters in Turkey during the Crimean War. ""I asked, “Was Mr. Tupper in the army?” “Eh?”"""										
"""To spare the gentle reader any more of this, let me set forth in a straightforward fashion the tale that she told me over the next few hours"										
"in a far more confused way, and understandably so, for the Crimean War"										
"was one of the most confused conflicts ever undertaken by human stupidity: England and Napoleonic France, of all the unlikely allies, joining with heathen Turkey, even more unlikely, against the already- dying giant that had been Ottoman Russia. “Theirs not to wonder why, theirs but to do or die,” doomed men charging straight into cannon-fire for the sake of a godforsaken peninsula in the Black Sea: the Crimea, chiefly occupied by lice the size of spiders, great fat leaping fleas, and rats so big that terriers ran away from them."""										
"""Mr. Tupper, however (Mrs. Tupper explained to me), had voyaged to the Crimea as a business venture, being a sumpter, one who sold to soldiers the"""										
goods their  own thieving suppliers  failed to provide for them.										
Seizing the										
"""opportunity, off he went, taking his bride along without a second thought. They were both the merest youngsters. They saw the officers’ wives accompanying their husbands with carriage-loads of servants, silverware, and linens, as if going to war were a holiday. Indeed, women by the thousands accompanied the armies, females ranging from camp- followers to Sisters of Mercy, little knowing that most of them, like the men, would die."""										
"""Not from battle, but from disease."""										
"""“Crimean fever, it were,” explained Mrs. Tupper. “There Thomas lay not knowing nothing, with blood running out of ’is ears, ’is eyes, ’is mouth an’ nose. Me, trying to ’elp, I paid a couple of the native beggars to  lay ’im in an ox-cart for me, an’ that way I took ’im to the big ’ospital there at Scutari, ye know.” She shook her head, remembering her own innocence. “I thought maybe the doctors an’ nurses there could fix ’im  up. The word were that they ’ad nurses new from England.”"""										
"""But those nurses, as I was later to learn, were subject to the commands of the army surgeons, who regarded them not only as interfering females  in a male domain but, even worse, as civilian spies sent to ruin an otherwise good time with their hen-witted ideas about caring for common soldiers. The army placed many restrictions on these annoying women. In the name of propriety, for instance, females were not allowed in the wards at night."""										
"""Each morning, then, they needed to remove those who had died since the day before."""										
Including Mr. Tupper.										
"""“I tidied ’im a bit, sewed ’im up in ’is blanket, an’ they put ’im in  the same big grave as thirty others done passed away during the dark hours,” Mrs. Tupper told me, going on to explain that meanwhile, her livelihood—her husband’s goods, tent, pack-ponies, et cetera—had vanished as if into smoke, looted by wartime thieves. Left with no means to get home to England, she found herself amongst others consigned to the very lowest regions of the inferno that was Scutari. Beneath the barracks, or hospital, ran a maze of cellars, and it was here that Mrs. Tupper took refuge along with other widows, orphaned children, crippled old peasants left behind by their families, all manner of beggars—of which she was now one."""										
"""“’An me not in the best of ’ealth, either.”"""										
"""But rather than elaborate on this interesting statement, Mrs. Tupper got up to"""										
"""light a few candles. While she was on her feet (no small undertaking, at her age"""										
"""—heavens, she had to be more than fifty!), she opened a carved wooden  box I had often noticed, centred as it was upon her sideboard. From this box she brought me a fading photograph to look at. “That were taken of  Mr. Tupper an’ me on our wedding day,” she declared as I studied the  posed portrait of two young people in the absurd clothing of mid-century—"										
"his vast drooping bow-tie, and her skirt spread wide over hoops and"										
"crinolines, like an inverted bowl. My good landlady had lapsed into a reminiscent mood, seeming almost to have forgotten about the frightening letter that had caused her to confide in me in the first place."" ""Directing her attention back to the black-inked, brutal missive, I shouted into her ear-trumpet, “What are you supposed to deliver? What message? To whom?”"""										
"""“I dunno!” Seating herself again, she hugged herself with her skinny arms. “I’ve thought an’ thought an’ I just dunno! What with losing the baby an’ all, I might’ve forgot.”"""										
"""An odd, almost seasick, upside-down feeling took hold of me and rendered me speechless. I simply could not imagine . . . my dear old landlady, she who now spent her days stewing oxtails and tatting pillow-slips, had once traveled to a barbaric land, lost her husband, and then, “not in the best of ’ealth” . . ."""										
"Mrs. Tupper must have seen myriad shocked questions in my face. ""“Stillborn it were,” she explained, “an’ no wonder, fer I were more’n half starved, my clothes in rags an’ no bed to lie on in them caves, an’ no sleep to be ’ad, either, for the rats would nibble yer fingers.” With her arms still clasped around herself, she rocked her hunched upper body to and fro. “A ’ellish place it was. Folk went mad. One of ’em took my baby an’ flung it into the sea. I thought fer sure I would perish, too, an’ that grieved I were, I didn’t greatly care.”"""										
"""I whispered, “How ever did you escape?”"""										
"""And there was no need for me to shout in her ear-trumpet, for she understood my question well enough, from my face if not from my lips."" ""“The English nurse lady it were,” she said. “Funny, I hain’t thought of ’er in years. Yet she were famous at the time; the soldiers, they called her the Lady with the Lamp. ’Undreds of them she nursed every day like a mother. ’Ow or why she found time to take mercy on me is a miracle.” Mrs. Tupper’s watery gaze seemed to see not me, but a distant place of the past. “Maybe she ’eard I wouldn’t . . .” My landlady’s papery old face actually flushed pink. “I wouldn’t, if you know what I mean, like them camp-followers. . . . Most of the women in"""										
"""the cellars would do anything for the sake of food an’ pennies, an’ I don’t blame"""										
"""’em, but I just couldn’t bring meself . . . Maybe that were it. ’Owever it come about, one day one of them crippled boys she adopted fetched me to ’er. Up in a corner tower she were, an’ me with barely strength to climb the stairs. There must’ve been a ’undred people in that room, jabbering all French an’ whatnot, coming an’ going with sponge baths an’ bandage lint an’ shirt buttons an’ lemons an’ tincture of iodine an’ knitted Cardigans an’ Balaclavas an’ who knows what all; she ’ad ’er own storehouse in there.”"""										
"""“What was her name?” I murmured,  trying to remember—for I, also, had heard  of this remarkable  Englishwoman, although I must admit that my knowledge of the Crimean War was sorely lacking; my education, dependent upon my father’s library, had focussed on Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and the like."""										
"""“She saw to it that I were washed an’ fed,” marveled Mrs. Tupper, “an’ fine clothes she give me, better’n what I was married in, an’ she  arranged my passage ’ome an’ paid for it out of ’er own purse. An’ that gracious she were, chatting to me—though I barely understood a word she said. Deaf I was even back then, but I never said nothin’, for I ’oped it would go away, bein’ just from the gunfire there at Sevastopol, ye see, when Mr. Tupper an’ me were taking brandy to the troops while the Russian ladies set up on top of the ’ill with their parasols an’ their picnic baskets, watching like it were a music ’all show.”"""										
"""Good heavens. She had been in battle, too? My little old landlady?"""										
"""Hardly knowing what to think or how to continue this rambling interview,"										
"I once more lifted the mysterious missive that had come in her post and showed it to her. “Mrs. Tupper,” I implored, “do you have any idea—”""  She shook her toothless head vehemently. “I just don’t know!” she cried. “It don’t make no sense. I were nobody over there!”"										
"""A very brave nobody, I thought. But still, a mere accidental woman  caught in the war. So who on earth was her mysterious enemy, and what did he—for unmistakably the ferocious handwriting was that of a man—what did he want of her? Now, thirty-four years afterward?"""										
"""Although my curiosity might never be satisfied, still, I felt it my duty to help her with this mysterious matter."""										
CHAPTER THE SECOND										
"""SO, AS EVERY VIRTUOUS YOUNG LADY SHOULD DO, I sought the"""										
"""advice of an older, wiser, masculine head, consulting a man of the world: Dr. Leslie Ragostin, Scientific Perditorian—my employer."""										
"""I jest. Dr. Ragostin was fictitious, my invention so that I should have the opportunity to search for missing things and persons. All the next day, at work as Miss Meshle, the great man’s secretary, I puzzled over Mrs. Tupper’s problem: how to deal with the sender of her mysteriously threatening letter?"""										
"""As was my custom, I first sat at my desk and composed a list of questions:"""										
Why “carrier pigeon”? Because she was going home? Are a carrier pigeon and a homing pigeon the same? To call a person a pigeon is a very odd term of insult.										
"The Americans say “stool pigeon” of an ""informer. Is, call him X, an"" American?"										
“Bird-brained” rather than “harebrained” also an Americanism? What message? From whom?										
To whom?										
How does it concern X? Does he wish										
"""to receive it, intercept it, destroy it? How has he fixed on Mrs. Tupper? Was he in Scutari with her?"""										
"""Unhelpful, overall. I did not really feel that the threatening letter  had come from an American. In no way was America concerned in the Crimea; moreover, there was something quite European about X’s hedgehog handwriting, including the ink—"""										
"""I added to the list,"""										
Why India ink? Meant for										
pen-and-ink sketches; is X an artist?										
"""Then I sat scowling at the list without another worthwhile thought until Joddy, the page-boy, came in with the morning’s newspapers and, since it was May, a bouquet of lilacs I had requested for the sake of their heavenly scent."""										
"""Nor did I achieve anything more that day than to compose, and bang out upon the very modern type-writing machine I had recently purchased, the following to be placed in the newspaper personal advertisements:""  ""Carrier pigeon has no message, knows of no message, can deliver nothing. Further inquiries pointless. Please desist. Mrs. T."""										
“T” for Tupper; I did not know Mrs. Tupper’s first name.										
"""Relieved to find her in the kitchen that evening cooking one of her ghastly messes and none the worse for wear, I showed her this, receiving her permission to place it in the newspapers."""										
"""The next day I typed numerous copies, took them around to all the dailies on Fleet Street, and hoped that would be the end of the matter."" Would that it were so."										
"""That was a Wednesday. Carrier pigeon has no message was published in the Thursday morning editions. On Thursday evening, as I wended my way back  to Mrs. Tupper’s ramshackle house crammed between the tenements of the"										
"East End, my thoughts were mainly of supper, hoping it would be something"										
"at least remotely palatable. I walked up the front steps expecting some aroma—whether of stewed herring, chicken livers, or some less disgusting variety of meat—but the moment I opened the door, all such thoughts fled my mind."""										
"""I saw drawers hanging open, chairs overturned, shelves knocked down, crockery broken upon the plank floor."""										
"""I smelled cigar smoke, and whale oil leaking from a smashed lamp, and the distressingly physical odour of fear."""										
"""I heard the smothered sound of someone crying. “’Elp!” came a muffled feminine voice, sobbing. “Please ’elp me!” The sound scorched my heart, for what despicable sort of villain would distress or harm such a deaf old dear as Mrs. Tupper?"""										
And what else might he do?										
Could he be still on the premises?										
"""Snatching my dagger from my bodice—with its hilt disguised as a large, hideous brooch, it nestled between my buttons, sheathed in my corset—with weapon in hand, I entered the ransacked house, looking sharply about me  as I made my way towards—I could see her now, bound hand and foot, gagged by a dish-towel—"""										
Not Mrs. Tupper! “They ’it me!”										
"""Tied to a kitchen chair was a rawboned girl perhaps twelve years old, whose swaddled, wet, and reddened face I did not recognise at first as I cut the twine that secured her feet and hands. But as she herself tore  the gag off, I realised that it was Florrie, Mrs. Tupper’s daily girl-of- all-work, whom I had seen only a few times, as she generally finished before I arrived home."""										
Where was Mrs. Tupper?										
"""“They laid ’ands on me!” Florrie spewed forth such a torrent of woe that no sense could be got out of her, while I burned with fear that my landlady lay insensible, or hurt, or—or worse. But I saw no sign of her downstairs. Leaving Florrie to her hysterics, I rushed up to Mrs."										
"Tupper’s bedchamber, dagger in hand. But I found only more ruins—bedstead flung aside and everything from the wardrobe and dresser thrown on the floor; not an inch of carpet was to be seen. Such were the heaps of  sheets and blankets mixed with shoes, skirts, shawls, and unmentionables that at first I thought Mrs. Tupper might be lying somewhere underneath. Throwing my dagger aside, like a demented badger I burrowed amongst bed linens, penny weeklies, house-dresses, rheumatism cures, aprons and  frocks and—and my landlady’s old black Sunday bonnet—"""										
"""Holding the venerable bonnet freshly trimmed with new ribbons for Easter, I felt sick yet calmer, more sane."""										
"""I retrieved my dagger and sheathed it, reasoning that if there were brigands still in the house, they would have attacked me by now; also, Florrie would have fled the kitchen, whereas I could still hear her lamentations echoing up the stairs."""										
"""Having failed to find Mrs. Tupper in her bedroom, I checked my own. Oddly, it had not been ransacked like the rest of the house. I looked into the wardrobe and under the bed. Mrs. Tupper—or what I dreaded to find, her mortal remains"""										
—my landlady was not there.										
"""I ran back downstairs. Florrie had moved only to stand up, but her wails were"""										
"""increasingly taking the shape of words. “Gennelmums, my ’ind foot!” Barely"""										
intelligible; I could catch a few words now and then. “Come bustin’ in										
’ere . . . slappin’ a respegguble girl . . . ’ouse all sixes an’ sevens .										
. .”										
“Where is Mrs. Tupper?” I interrupted. “. . . rat-face curs fit fer the sewer . . .”										
I took her by the shoulders. With difficulty I restrained myself from										
shaking her. “Florrie. Where is Mrs. Tupper?”										
"""“. . . an’ ’er makin’ pudding dough wit’ ’er sleeves rolled up, nuttin’ on ’er ’ead but ’er ’ouse-cap . . .”"""										
"""I went ahead and shook the obtuse girl, shouting, “Where is Mrs. Tupper?”"""										
"""Jerking herself free of my hands, Florrie shouted back at me as if I were the dense one, “I been telling ye! They took ’er!”"""										
It required an excruciating hour for me to get the tale out of Florrie.										
She would										
"""not calm down for any coaxing, and eventually I had to say I would summon a constable. (I could not possibly do so, for I myself was a runaway, wanted by Scotland Yard as well as by my very formidable brothers—but the girl did not know that.) Florrie, like any proper East Ender, dreaded having anything to do with the police, so she sat down in a kitchen chair as I told her to, and tried to talk sensibly. “They was dressed like gents, or I wouldn’t ’ave let them in.”"""										
“How many?” I had put the kettle on the stove and was trying to find a cup that was not broken so that I could give her tea.										
“Two big bearded blokes.” “And what did they look like?” “They ’ad beards like Anarchists.”										
"""And very probably fake. As patiently as I could, I responded, “Aside from the beards. What colour was their hair, for instance?”"""										
She didn’t recall. “How tall?”										
She couldn’t really say. They had seemed huge. “How old do you think they might have been?”										
"""One seemed younger than the other, but not so a person would notice. And so on. The poor girl’s dim wits were thoroughly addled by her fright."" ""Understandably so. As far as I could piece together, the two bearded strangers"""										
"""had knocked at the door, asked politely to speak with Mrs. Tupper, and once within the house had quite changed their tone, demanding to be given the message for the Bird."""										
“What?”										
"""“They kep’ on saying she should give ’em what she ’ad for the Bird.” “A Mr. Byrd, perhaps?”"""										
"""“No mister, no missus, just ‘the Bird,’ wot they say. Bellering into ’er ear- trumpet they were, ‘We know you was a spy for the Bird!’”"""										
"""CARRIER PIGEON, the mysterious and threatening missive had addressed Mrs. Tupper before instructing her to deliver her BIRD-BRAINED message. She was a bird who was to report to a Bird, then?"""										
"""Bizarre as it seemed, a pattern did appear to emerge. Otherwise, I might not have believed the ignorant girl-of-all-work still breathlessly babbling:"""										
"""“‘Wot you got fer the Bird,’ they kep’ yelling at ’er, an’ when she toll"										
"’em an’ toll ’em she din ’ave nothing, they smacked ’er—”"" The blackguards! How could they strike a poor old woman?"										
“—an’ then they smacked me fer interferin’—” Florrie had tried to intervene?										
My feelings for the girl warmed immediately.										
“—and they tied me up an’ commenced ’unting fer it.” “But—for what?”										
"""“I dunno, miss, no more’n Mrs. Tupper did. That flummoxed she were, she cried.”"""										
"""“Villains,” I muttered, setting a cup of tea in front of the girl. “Yes, miss. Thank you, miss.”"""										
"""“There’s no sugar, I’m afraid. It’s all spilled.” I paced the ruined room, unable to sit down with her. “So did these dastardly men find what they were looking for?”"""										
"""The girl took a long sip of tea, which I could not begrudge her, then finally said, “’Ow wud I know, Miss Meshle?”"""										
"""Confound her! I wanted to snatch her tea away. Just because she had been"										
"tied up with her back to the door, so that she could not see, could she not have heard something? As calmly and civilly as I could I inquired, and she reported one of"""										
the villains saying they would “take the deaf old bat along an’ ’e could ask ’er										
’imself.”										
Who on earth was “’e”?										
Evidently the thugs had not found “the message to the Bird.” Who in perdition were they?										
"""Was there anything more to be got out of Florrie? Forcing myself to sit down so as to cease towering over the unfortunate girl, I began my interrogation of her all over again, but with no satisfactory results, other than the additional information that the older kidnapper was  missing some teeth. (From this I could conclude that he was not of the very best class in society.) When Florrie— ridiculous but popular name; one seemed to run across Florries everywhere— when the obtuse wench began to cry again, I knew it was time to desist."""										
"""“Very well, Florrie.” I gave her a shilling. “Run on home, now, tell your mother all about it, and have her spread the word.” Indeed I could not have hushed Florrie’s mother, a washerwoman, had I tried; her Irish tongue served as a megaphone for the neighbourhood. “Please let it be known”—I held up a pound note to indicate fiduciary inducement— “that anyone who saw those men take Mrs. Tupper or who knows anything about it should come here and inform me at once.”"""										
"""Still sniffling, Florrie nodded, then scuttled out the door."" CHAPTER THE THIRD"										
"""AND DIRECTLY AFTER  FLORRIE, I WENT OUT likewise, still in my"" ""striped-and-ruffled poplin dress, my silly little hat and green glass ear-bobs and false curls, for Miss Meshle was a familiar sight on that street, and its other inhabitants would not hesitate to talk with me."										
"Amongst them I hoped to find witnesses to Mrs. Tupper’s abduction.""  ""And so I did, in plenty, for a horse-drawn conveyance was a rarity on that narrow stone-paved lane, and Mrs. Tupper’s unexpected visitors had arrived in a carriage, no less. Many of the neighbourhood loiterers had noticed it."""										
"""The “blind” beggar on the corner divulged that the strangers had arrived in a shiny black brougham driven by a pursy, florid man, and the horse  had been a bay."""										
"""The corner chandler had seen a phaeton with the top up, a coat-of-arms on the door, with a nondescript narrow sort of driver and a black horse that “would’ve been good for a funeral.”"""										
"""His wife agreed that there was a picture of a white deer or unicorn or something on the vehicle’s door, but said it was a barouche with the top up, not a phaeton, and the horse was brown. The driver had been short and stocky, with a pronounced chin."""										
"""The greengrocer had seen a black brougham with bright yellow wheels but no coat-of-arms, drawn by a chestnut horse and driven by a tall, puffy- faced man with a red nose, obviously a heavy drinker and very likely Irish."""										
"""The pudding-vendor said that a rather shabby grey cab had waited in front of Mrs. Tupper’s house, the heavy, dark horse looked “more fit for a plough,” and that the driver had one single eyebrow “as thick as thatch” that ran like a roof clear over his nose."""										
"""The “lady of the night” on our street, who would also be a “lady of the day” when opportunity offered, said that she had approached the driver while the carriage sat in front of Mrs. Tupper’s house, but had been rudely rebuffed. She said he looked much like any other man, two eyes, mouth, nose in the middle. She said the carriage was black with shiny red wheels, no crest, and the horse was roan."""										
"""The street urchins said variously that the horse was black, brown, or"										
"red, that"""										
"""the conveyance was a four-wheeler cab, a carriage, or a coach, that the driver was short, tall, fat, thin, old, young; they agreed only that he was unfriendly, throwing no pennies but rather threatening them with his whip."""										
"""Regarding any description of the occupants of the cab/phaeton/brougham/barouche/carriage/coach, that is to say, the men who had abducted Mrs. Tupper: no one seemed to have seen them getting out of the conveyance and going into the house. Nor had anyone, anyone, observed the kidnappers coming out of the house with Mrs. Tupper in hand, or noticed which way they went. Apparently, the neighbourhood’s curiosity  had been all for their arrival, not for their departure. And by this  time, even if anyone had told me what they looked like, I would not have believed a word."""										
"""Fit to scream with frustration, and nearly despairing, I returned to the house, lest news arrive from Florrie or her mother, or a demand from the abductors, or something of the sort."""										
"""Suppertime had long since passed, but I had no thoughts of eating, nor could I bring myself to sit down, rest, and wait. Rather, I paced the ransacked lower room, kicking broken china out of my way and trying to think. Two rough men demanding a message? We know you were a spy for the Bird. Mrs. Tupper, a spy? Ludicrous."""										
What in the name of nonsense could “the Bird” mean?										
"""What message? My understanding seemed as dim as the single candle I carried for light, as day had long since turned to night."""										
"""What in the world could Mrs. Tupper have got herself mixed up in? I could not imagine her intentionally withholding from two rough thugs anything that they wanted. Mrs. Tupper, for all her adventures in the Crimea, seemed to me hardly the sort of person to indulge in heroics. I believed that if she had any inkling what the villains wanted, she would have given it to them at once."""										
"""Yet, evidently they had left without it, for why else would they have taken her with them? They believed she knew where it was, and they intended for their master or employer—the man I called X, or perhaps the mysterious Bird—to induce her to relinquish it—"""										
It? What was “it”?										
The two intruders had plundered the house as if in search of some physical object.										
But obviously they had not found it.										
Just as obviously Mrs. Tupper knew nothing of it. Yet—might it nevertheless be here?										
"""When I was a little girl—less than a year ago, that era before Mum took her"""										
"""unannounced leave, but it seemed a distant past, those green sweet- scented countryside days before all this grey London smut—when I was thirteen-going- on-ten instead of fourteen-going-on-thirty, I used to run out into the woods of Ferndell Park, my home, and look for things, anything, just searching. Climbing trees, peering into the crannies of  the rocks, pretending there was some treasure to be found. The trove I accumulated had included jay-feathers, yellow-striped snail-shells, someone’s garnet earring, plover-eggs, pennies that had turned green, interesting stones that I suspected might contain gems within them—and I suppose I still look for things of value in unlikely places; this has become my life’s calling."""										
"""Undertaking to search Mrs. Tupper’s house, then, I set about the task  not only with energy born of desperation but with the keen interest of a lifelong Nosey- Nellie and with a practised eye to note anything unusual, anything at all."""										
"""As the mysterious intruders had most rudely strewn Mrs. Tupper’s poor"										
"belongings, I took the opposite approach: I put things away. Lighting every candle, every lantern and oil-lamp (in outrageous defiance of the usual parsimony of the place), inch by inch I inspected the dwelling and every item therein by replacing each thing where it belonged."""										
"""Or, in the case of broken dishes, sweeping up the shards and depositing them in the dust-bin."""										
"""Also shattered were the two crockery spaniels who had guarded the ends of the mantel. I inspected their interior surfaces carefully, but saw no sign that anything had been concealed in them."""										
"""The contents of Mrs. Tupper’s carved memorabilia box lay torn and strewn on the floor. I inspected them as I collected them: my landlady’s  babyhood record of baptism so old and brittle it had broken into pieces along the folds, equally ancient sepia-toned photographic portraits most likely of family members, a similar one of stiffly-ranked children being promoted from the Sisters of Mercy Ragged School of Hoisington—Mrs."										
"Tupper had done well for one who had made her start in a ragged school!— the wedding photograph I had seen before, her yellowing marriage certificate, the deed to the house, et cetera. From all of"""										
"""this I discovered that Mrs. Tupper’s first name was Dinah, but nothing more."""										
"""The hour was late, but I could not possibly sleep; I continued working. When I had inspected and tidied the kitchen and parlour to my dissatisfaction, I tore myself a hunk of bread and forced myself to eat it, knowing I needed to safeguard my strength. Then, gnawing the crust, I trudged upstairs to assail Mrs. Tupper’s bedroom."""										
"""First, and in haste, begrudging the time, I stopped in my own chamber to rid myself of the increasingly annoying corset, bust enhancer, hip regulators, and other paraphernalia of Miss Meshle. With muted relief I shed my buxom fair- haired disguise to be my scrawny self. In my stocking feet, a dressing gown, and my own lank hair and wedge-of-cheese face, I proceeded to my task."""										
"""Every drawer of Mrs. Tupper’s dresser had been dumped. With lighted candle in hand I inspected that humble item of furniture for any false bottoms where writings or papers might be concealed; I even pulled it away from the wall to look at its back, and I scrutinised each drawer, inside and out, as I replaced it. Nothing."""										
"""With a sigh, I then set about picking up clothing from bed and floor. As I folded Mrs. Tupper’s poor, dear old-fashioned pantaloons to return them to the dresser, tears ran down my face; imagine, having strange men in one’s bedroom laying callous hands upon one’s underpinnings! How  perfectly dreadful."""										
"""My feelings of lachrymose outrage continued as I examined the empty wardrobe, then began to return strewn and rumpled clothing to its hangers therein. Mrs. Tupper was a good, decent woman, I thought as I handled the muslin blouses and woollen skirts, some of them neatly patched, that she wore on weekdays. No doubt she had been wearing blouse, skirt, apron, and ruffled house-cap when she had been snatched away. How distressed she  must be, for Mrs. Tupper never let herself be seen upon the street  without first exchanging her apron for a starched white “pinner” and her house-cap for a bonnet!"""										
"""Skirts were for everyday wear; special occasions required dresses, and Mrs. Tupper managed dresses just as she did everything else: with thrift, moderation, and regularity. She owned no more than four. Each spring she put great thought into the purchase of a new, sensible one appropriate to a woman of her age and humble station yet reasonably current in fashion. And each winter she “made over” one of the older dresses, taking it  apart, turning its fabric to the unstained side, and altering its cut and trimming to reflect current trends. What was beyond saving she discarded."										
"She did not keep anything out-of-date; she had got rid of her bustle, for"										
"instance, within a year after that ridiculous shelf-like dorsal"" protrusion had gone out of style."										
"""I was a bit surprised, therefore, to find, amongst the other clothing I rescued from the floor, quite an old-fashioned crinoline frock that must have dated back to the times when it was difficult for a fashionable  woman to fit the breadth of her skirt through a doorway. Very well made this dress was, with a ruffled peplum, ruffles at the shoulders also, and yards and yards of Prussian blue silk in its vast skirt, which spread full circle in the style of thirty years ago."""										
Perhaps the thrifty Mrs. Tupper had kept this relic for the sake of the fabric? But would she not have cut it up and made use of it long before now?										
"""A sentimental memento, then? Her wedding-dress? It was quite fine enough for one."""										
"""But no, I had seen Mrs. Tupper’s wedding photo, and I did not recognise this dress from it."""										
"""So why in Heaven’s name, given her stingy habits and her limited wardrobe space, had she preserved this voluminous gown?"""										
"""And also, I saw to my renewed surprise as I glanced towards the next garment awaiting me on the floor—she had also kept its crinoline!"" CHAPTER THE FOURTH"										
THE GENTLE READER  WILL KINDLY UNDERSTAND that I  am not										
"""attempting to excuse myself, but merely reporting the truth of the matter, when I say that, at that moment, daylight was dawning literally although not, alas, metaphorically. I had been up all night, had grown stupid in consequence, and I looked upon the crinoline without analytical insight, merely girlish bewilderment: no one had worn the abominable things since 1860 or thereabouts, so why did Mrs. Tupper still have one?"" ""Picking up the crinoline, feeling its heft and the scratchy rigour of  its linen- and-horsehair fabric, I could quite see that, although now unstarched and much flattened, nevertheless it had been at one time quite formidable, fit to support and flare even the heaviest nine-yards-of- fabric flounced-and-ruffled skirt. Constructed in the form of a tiered petticoat, the crinoline widened enormously from top to bottom, each  panel much larger than the last and gathered into it, the seams being covered by sturdy grosgrain ribbon embroidered with flowers."""										
"I found myself gazing at those blossomy embellishments.    ""Unlike most well-bred young ladies, I had never been taught to"										
"embroider. My mother, a Suffragist, had scorned the drawing-room graces, encouraging me to read books, ride my bicycle, wander the woods, and climb trees, not to mould wax roses, string seashells, hem hankies, or bead eyeglass-cases. I knew how to do sensible everyday sewing, of course, such as darning stockings or mending a seam, but not decorative stitchery of any sort."""										
"""Perversely, then, I quite admired the crinoline’s adornment of blue ribbon embroidered with flowers of pink, peach, yellow, lavender, and other lovely pastel hues, for I thought embroidered posies very pretty indeed and wished I knew how to make them. I had even gone so far as to learn a few basic stitches from the Girl’s Own Paper—well, only two, actually, French Knot and Lazy Daisy, which I recognised on the crinoline’s ribbons. I had never seen embroidered ribbon before, but I would have expected a repeating pattern of some sort; the blue grosgrain, however, was decorated with a sweet and artless sequence, random as to both colour and arrangement, of wild roses and starflowers—quite winsome while simple to achieve, I realised, peering more closely. The  starflowers were five Lazy Daisy stitches around a French Knot,"""										
and the little roses were nothing more than thread wrapped under and over three										
crossed stitches—										
"""What ever was I thinking? My poor deaf landlady missing, kidnapped,"										
"maybe injured or even—despatched—and there I stood gawking at embroidery?"""										
"""Thrusting the crinoline into the wardrobe, I continued my search for something that might help explain what had happened to Mrs. Tupper, or give me some clue as to her whereabouts. After putting away her few remaining clothes, I examined her bed as I put it back together, looked under her night- stand and her wash-stand, even studied her stacks of gossip-and-fashion periodicals, but without any helpful results. I even turned up her carpet, and found nothing under it. With a sigh, I sat down on her bed, looking about me and trying to think. I had looked at the floor. I studied the walls. I lay down to scan the plasterwork of the ceiling. . . ."""										
"""I was awakened only an hour or two later by Florrie. “Oh, Miss Meshle,” she"""										
"""gasped, “such a turn ye gave me. All the lamps on and no sign of ye downstairs or in yer room—I thought they’d come and got ye, too!”"" ""“What? Who?” I mumbled, unable momentarily to remember where I was or what I was about or even who I was. Miss Meshle? I thought my name was Enola Holmes."""										
"""“Miss Meshle,” said Florrie anxiously, “ye don’t look like yerself. Why, ye’ve lost that much weight overnight wot with worrying about Mrs. Tupper and all, it’s a wonder ye’re yet alive.”"""										
"""The simple girl had never seen me without my padding, plus the rubber devices I usually stuffed into my mouth and nostrils to fill out the shape of my face. I looked quite different, I am sure, and she thought the change was wrought by Mrs. Tupper’s disappearance."""										
"""“Now she may well be dead, wot me mother says—”"""										
"""This jolted me upright. “Florrie, do please hush!” Mrs. Tupper, perished, murdered? Such nonsense—well, perhaps not nonsense—still, it did not bear saying."""										
"""Florrie did not hush. “—but the rest of us must go on living, an’ if you hain’t et something yet, you should ’ave an egg an’ a cup of tea straightaway.”"""										
"""What an odd creature the girl was, with her clumsy bony personage and her round childish face. Trying to take care of me, forsooth. I found myself almost"""										
"""smiling as I sat on the edge of my landlady’s bed. “Florrie,” I asked gently, “is"""										
there any news of Mrs. Tupper?”										
"""“I don’t know wot you’d rightly call it news, miss, for folk talk of nothin’ else, and some says she were taken by Red Anarchists, but others says it’s them gangs from the dockyards are to blame, and some even says it’s Jack the Ripper.” Florrie shivered. “It couldn’t be that, could it, miss? Mrs. Tupper were a respegguble woman.”"""										
"""Her use of the past tense, already, jarred me to my feet. “She still is, I hope. You’re quite correct, Florrie, I need something to eat so that I can better think what to do.” According to Dr. Watson’s accounts of my brother Sherlock, starvation and sleeplessness increased the acuity of  the great detective’s mental processes, but alas—for I begrudged the time—I found that I functioned much better when rested and fed."""										
"""“’At’s right, miss.” Florrie started downstairs."""										
"""But as I turned to follow her out of the room, my glance caught on the wardrobe still hanging open, and on its contents."""										
"""“Florrie,” I called after the girl, “would you happen to know why Mrs. Tupper kept this?” I pulled out the exquisite old-fashioned blue silk dress."""										
"""“Oh, yes, miss!” With considerable enthusiasm, Florrie reversed course, running back into the bedroom. “She showed it to me once, miss, because"										
"it were given to her by the lady I was named after. Or not me, exactly,"										
"bein’ I were named after my aunt, but my aunt were named after her.”"" ""Confound the babbling girl, she made my head ache. I think I persevered only because there was nothing else to do. “Who?”"""										
"""“The lady, miss, the one wot gave Mrs. Tupper the dress!”"""										
"""I took a deep breath. “Start over, Florrie. Slowly, please. Who gave Mrs."""										
Tupper this gown?”										
"""Anxious to please me, Florrie frowned with distress. “I disremember her name exactly, miss, but she were famous at the time. The Lady with the Lamp, they called ’er when Aunt Flo was born, but nobody ’eard nothing ’bout ’er fer years now.”"""										
"""Mrs. Tupper had said something about a Lady with a Lamp, hadn’t she?  With some strain my weary brain began to make connections. Thirty-four years ago, forgotten now. Crimean War. Fine clothes she give me, better’n what I was married in—this had to be the mid-century crinoline dress I held in my hands."""										
"""“Now, what were that lady’s name?” Florrie muttered."""										
One of those crossword-puzzle names once famous but slowly being forgotten										
""". . . But what could any of this possibly have to do with our immediate and pressing difficulties? “It doesn’t matter.” I put the dress back into the wardrobe and closed the doors on it. “Come along, Florrie.”"""										
"""The girl obeyed, trailing downstairs after me, but she kept mumbling. “Florence. Florence something,” as I slumped in a kitchen chair and she put the kettle on for tea. “Peculiar name, sort of dark. Blackwell?"										
"Blackwood? Blackbird?”"""										
"""Suddenly it came to me. “Florence Nightingale.” “’At’s it!” Florrie appeared much relieved. “Nightin-gaol, must’ve ’ad a scoundrel back o’ the family somewheres, but she were a fine lady fer all that—”"""										
"""“Not Nightin-gaol,” I interrupted, forgetting to erase my aristocratic accent, such was my fatigue and irritation. “No slur of imprisonment exists. A nightingale is simply a sweetly singing bird of the thrush family—”"""										
"""Within my mind I experienced a sensation reminiscent of the flash powder exploding above a portrait photographer’s camera, and I rocketed to my feet, nearly upsetting the table. “Ye gods!” I shouted in a most unruly fashion. “The Bird!”"""										
CHAPTER THE FIFTH										
"""THE LADY WITH THE LAMP HERSELF MUST BE deceased by now, I"""										
"""assumed, because any veteran of the Crimean War I had ever met had been tottering on the edge of the grave, and those men had been youths at the time of the conflict, whereas Florence Nightingale had been a middle-aged woman; surely, as I had not heard her name mentioned in years, she had long since passed away. But perhaps some surviving member of the Nightingale family might know something of Mrs. Tupper’s history, or even of her present whereabouts? It was a most tenuous clue, but I clutched at it in the proverbial manner, for it was the only straw I had."""										
"""After gulping some bread and tea, I ran upstairs to dress, casting about in my mind for the best way in which to present myself. Miss Meshle was too vulgarly working-class to merit respect or receive admission, yet the pristinely upper- class Miss Viola Everseau would take hours to put together, and I had no patience for her; my hands shook as I snatched clothing out of my wardrobe, settling upon a plain and narrow brick- coloured merino dress. In this, with my mud-brown hair in a bun and a  pair of tortoiseshell-rimmed spectacles upon my bony face, I would pass  as a particular variety of upper-class female, the kind who espouses causes and studies (or attempts to study, when not being harassed by proprietary males) at the British Museum, an unconventional young woman"										
"with no interest in marriage, but nevertheless a lady of sorts—even"										
"though no lady who aspired to beauty would ever be seen in eyeglasses."" ""Glancing into the mirror, I quite approved of the glasses, for their heavy dark rims disguised my face, especially the length of my rather alarming nose. I added a slightly mannish black hat. Excellent. I had rendered myself such a free- thinking spinsterish object that no one  would take any notice of me. There remained only the matter of jacket and gloves—ink-stained, of course—as I sallied forth, calling, “Florrie, will you stay until I get back?” I wanted her there at the house in case someone came with news."""										
"""“Of course, Miss—” She caught sight of me, and her jaw faltered. “Miss, um"""										
—Meshle?”										
"""“Never mind, Florrie.”"""										
“Ye’re going to look fer Mrs. Tupper?”										
"""“Of course, Florrie. But let us hope she makes her way home on her own"" before too long.”"										
Would that it were to be so.										
The streets  of the  East End brawled as always with  unwashed humanity—										
"""ragged, half-starved street urchins, a beggar with hideous festering “burns” made of soap scum and vinegar, street vendors bawling “Puddings an’ pies!” or “Ginger beer!” or “Fish ’ere! Fresh ’erring!” with voices hoarse from shouting. Walking amidst washerwomen and other sorts of daily help hurrying towards the city, I noticed a tall, muscular workman, his plaid cloth cap rather too large for him, sauntering along; he would be late for his job at that rate."""										
"""Once I had passed the Aldgate Pump, a twenty-foot monstrosity topped with a grandiose lamp, I was able to summon a cab, for the monument to Light and Hygiene marked the beginning of a less odiferous, more respectable part of the city. As the cab-driver stopped for me, I told him, “Florence Nightingale School of Nursing.”"""										
"""“Right-o, miss.” I settled back into the open seat of the hansom cab as if I assumed the man knew where I was going, although I myself had no idea; I had heard only that there was such a school somewhere in London."" ""As we trotted along, I heard my  cabbie yell to another one, “’Ey!"""										
Whereabouts be the nursie school?”										
"""It turned out to be across London Bridge, on the other side of the Thames, in Lambeth near St. Thomas’ Hospital. As I alighted from the cab and paid the driver, I observed—walking the paths of a small formal  garden two by two, silently, as if performing a task, in the fine May sunshine—young women wearing starched white collars, aprons, and caps  over brown frocks so homely that even my merino seemed handsome by comparison. These, I surmised, were the nurses-in-training."""										
"""As they seemed indisposed to speak to me or even to look at me, I made for the massive front door of the sizeable but unlovely brick building, knocked, then saw a small placard directing one to “Walk In,” and did so."""										
"""Another small sign, with a hand painted upon it pointing the direction, showed me to the office. Within, I found a desiccated-looking matron, dressed in black, who looked me up and down in an appraising manner.""  ""Oh, dear. She thought I was applying to be a trainee. To my annoyance I found myself babbling with nerves. “I have not come—that is—I’m not, um—I am"""										
trying to locate some member of the Nightingale family in regard to a personal										
matter.”										
"""The dried-out woman blinked several times. “Some member?” “I, um, Miss Florence Nightingale—”"""										
"""I was trying to say in the most delicate way that surely the famous"										
"spinster herself was no longer available to be interviewed—but I spoke no farther, for quite briskly the matron nodded, reaching for a piece of paper. When she had written upon this, she handed it to me."""										
"""“Thirty-five South Street,” I read aloud, then looked up in astonishment. “Miss Nightingale is alive?”"""										
"""I am sure I looked quite mawkish, for the twiggy matron smiled. “Oh, very much so. Although she does not go out at all.”"""										
"""Oh, dear, it would be scarcely bearable if she were alive but unable to speak with me. “Is she unwell? Or, um, wandering in her mind?”""  ""“Senile? Hardly.” The dry stick actually chuck-led. “Nor is she often ill. It’s mostly that, after coming home from the Crimea and taking to her bed, she simply has not got out again.”"""										
"""“She’s, ah, um, she’s an invalid?” Bad news, or so I thought, for I knew invalids as peevish, malingering, demanding people who simply chose not  to be valid, so to speak. Scarcely a household in upper-class England had not at one time or another suffered under the paradoxical power of the invalid. Many a lady thwarted had taken to her bed for the sake of ordering folk about. Indeed, I had done so myself, for a few weeks after my mother had run away, although in my case it was in order to avoid unpleasantness in general and my brother Mycroft in particular."" But—nearly thirty-five years?"										
"""The matron said, “She prefers to be referred to as a valitudinarian. But if invalid she is, then surely she’s the most active invalid in London.” Then the woman gestured dismissal as if I were no more than a child. “Run along, dear. It’s time for me to call the probationers in from their constitutional.”"""										
"""Out I went, my mind rife with perturbing thoughts of the heroic Florence Nightingale now recumbent. Here lay yet another statue with feet of clay, I brooded. Would the erstwhile “Lady with the Lamp” shed any light at all upon the darkness surrounding the fate of Mrs. Tupper?"""										
"""Lambeth was an orderly sort of place, with not many people on the street at"""										
"""this mid-morning hour. Somewhat to my surprise, I noticed that one of the passersby was the same sauntering workman in an overlarge plaid hat whom I had seen in the East End earlier. Perhaps he was employed hereabouts?"""										
"""Finding a cab-stand, I got into another hansom and told the driver,"										
"“Thirty- five South Street.”"""										
"""But rather than starting off at once, he exclaimed, “In Mayfair, miss?”"" ""My surprise was scarcely less than his, but I hope I concealed it. “Is that where South Street is?”"""										
"""“Yes, miss.”"""										
“Then let us go there.”										
"""Small wonder he had checked to see whether he had heard me rightly, for Mayfair is London’s most exclusive neighbourhood. One would expect a  woman who has martyred her life for humanitarian causes to live—I don’t know where, but not in Mayfair, with the wealthy and powerful. Was Florence Nightingale rich? I supposed, now that I thought about it, she must have had considerable means in order to do the remarkable things she had done. But why, if she was born into a wealthy family, the sort to be presented at court, had she gone instead to a bloody cesspool of a hospital in the Crimea? And why now, confining herself to bed, did she live amongst courtiers? Jouncing along in the cab, I entertained a doubtful yet lively curiosity regarding Florence Nightingale."""										
"""No amount of thought and speculation, however, could have prepared me  for what I found at 35 South Street, just off Park Lane—indeed, the house was so situated as to enjoy a view of Hyde Park! And a worthy house it was, a large, handsome four-storey brick edifice, its area enclosed in"										
"wrought-iron railings, its shutters and trimmings painted a rich and"										
"restrained green."""										
"""After taking several deep breaths, I climbed stone steps to a stately door with fan-light. I plied a polished brass knocker, quite expecting to be met by a suitably fearsome butler who would question me, then usher me into a hushed, deep-carpeted library or parlour where I would wait alone for a considerable period of time before—"""										
"""The door opened, and a young man who was neither a butler nor a footman, but wore an exceedingly fashionable tweed suit with knickerbockers and tall tan gaiters, stood aside with hardly a glance at me and said, “Come in.”"""										
"""And from the doorstep I smelled the mingled aromas of tea, pastries, and cut"""										
"""flowers, while I heard the babble of many voices."""										
"""“I beg your pardon,” I said, put rather off balance, “am I interrupting something?”"""										
“Not at all.” He barked a short laugh. “It’s like this every day of the week. Do come in.”										
"""Sensing impatience in his voice, I did as he said, stepping into a  broad, well-lit hallway off of which opened parlour, library, morning- room, dining-room, and so on, several spacious rooms, and in every one of them sat men in city-suits and women in visiting-dresses either chatting, or taking tea, or poring over documents, or writing, or any combination  of the above. With quite a shock to my already-fuddled mind I recognised erstwhile Prime Minister Gladstone amongst the crowd."""										
I began to realise that my obtaining even a few moments of Miss Nightingale’s undivided attention might present considerable difficulty. CHAPTER THE SIXTH										
"""LIKE A SHIP BECALMED, I DRIFTED UPON THE SISAL carpet just inside"""										
"""the door, for the young man who had admitted me was now nowhere to be seen, and I did not know how to proceed. Baffled, I studied the furnishings of the passageway: ingenious yet attractive settees that incorporated hat-racks, mirrors, and umbrella-stands into their construction, a towering casement-clock, cabinets displaying memorabilia presumably from the Crimea, embroidered mottoes framed to hang on the walls: Patience and Persistence Prevail, Good Intentions Cannot Mend Bad Sense, Without Progress We Regress, that sort of thing, daintily stitched with borders of flowers."""										
"""As I studied Without Progress We Regress thoughtfully, a silk-gowned young woman, certainly not a servant, sailed past me with a pitcher of lemonade and some glasses on a tray. Although there certainly were no wasps to be fended off so early in the year, still, the pitcher was draped with a delicately daisybroidered jug cover. So taken was I with this lovely object that I rather startled when the young lady paused to ask me in the friendly manner of an equal, “Are you here in regard to hospital reform, miss?”"""										
"""Despite my pose of womanhood, I found myself replying like the callow fourteen-year-old girl I was. “Um, no . . .”"""										
“Or concerning the deplorable conditions in our workhouses?” I shook my head.										
"""“You are not on the Army Medical Commission, surely.” Cheerfully the young lady continued her attempt to place me. “The Committee for the Licensing of Trained Nurses?”"""										
"""Like a stupid child I shook my head, but then managed to say, “I need to ask Miss Florence Nightingale a question.”"""										
"""“That’s easily arranged. See Mrs. Crowley at the desk in the library,” she told me with a nod and a smile."""										
"""Mrs. Crowley, a somewhat older version of the richly gowned young lady who had directed me to her, also smiled and nodded as I said I wanted to speak to Florence Nightingale. She did not ask my name, luckily for me,"										
as I had no idea what it might be today. Nor did she request a card to be										
"sent up to the invalid, or"""										
"""a letter of introduction. Quite without questioning my intrusion in any way, she"""										
"""merely waved me to a nearby seat and handed me a laptop writing-desk complete with pen, ink, and a sheaf of cream-coloured rag paper of the very best quality."""										
"""I regarded this array with such evident bewilderment that Mrs. Crowley told me gently, “Write down what it is you wish to ask Miss Nightingale, and that young jackanapes in the knickerbockers will take it up to her, and as soon as she has time, she will write you a reply.”"""										
"""Baffled, I stammered, “But—but I really need to speak directly with Miss Nightingale!”"""										
"""Mrs. Crowley’s smile widened slightly. “Oh, no, I see you do not understand that is quite impossible,” she told me with only the kindliest hint of reproach in her voice. “No one speaks directly with Miss Nightingale.” Benignly Mrs. Crowley nodded towards a doorway across the hall, through which was visible the imposing form of Mr. Gladstone. “If His Excellency wishes to ask her something, he sends up a note. They all do.”"""										
"""“But—but if she is such an invalid, how can she—”"""										
"""“It is astonishing how much she accomplishes from her bed, dear. She takes her meals alone, and works constantly. In addition to household notes, she writes sometimes as many as one hundred letters a day, being instrumental in a great many reforms, although she never allows her name to be mentioned in the press. Amongst those in the know, however, the saying is that there are really three, not merely two, Houses of Parliament, and they are the House of Lords, the House of Commons, and the House of Florence Nightingale.”"""										
"""I believe I said rather weakly, “Good heavens. I had no idea. Nevertheless, I really do need to see Miss Nightingale in person—”""  ""“It is simply not possible.” Mrs. Crowley began to sound the slightest bit tart. “You appear to be a scholar; you do know how to write, don’t you?”"""										
“But this may be a matter of life or death!”										
"""Utterly unimpressed, Mrs. Crowley remarked, “Miss Nightingale would not see her parents when they were alive, nor her sister, nor, with few exceptions, anyone else in the past thirty years, so I think it unlikely that she will see you. But you can of course ask.” With a gesture of finality, she indicated the writing implements in my lap."""										
"""Confound everything, if there had been any ivy on the walls of this most"""										
"""peculiar house, I would have gone outside and attempted to climb it to the"""										
"""reclusive Miss Nightingale’s chamber. As there was none, however, I scowled at the paper set before me."""										
"""Even though I felt certain the effort was of no avail, eventually I wrote,"""										
"""Dear Miss Nightingale,"""										
Time is pressing; I will be direct: an										
"""elderly woman has been abducted by brigands, seemingly because she knew you in the"""										
"Crimea and carried a message for you. Her name is Mrs. Dinah Tupper. Have ""you any idea where she might be, or who has"""										
taken her? A Friend										
"""After blotting and folding this, I handed it to the ever-smiling Mrs. Crowley,"""										
"""who took it with a nod and offered the hospitality of the house with a gesture. “Have some tea, dear, or some lemonade, and biscuits. You will be informed the moment you receive a reply.”"""										
"""This Miss Nightingale certainly did carry the tyranny of invalidism to"										
"an extreme. I pictured her as a thoroughly petulant woman, and although I quite felt as if I wanted to strangle—if not her, then at least something or someone—still, I managed a meek enough nod as I got up and ambled  off."""										
"""While attempting to appear purposeless, actually I had become keenly interested in certain aspects of the interior of this house.""  ""Wandering through the rooms of the ground floor, past tables where numerous visitors partook of finger sandwiches, sliced fruit, hot pastries, and the like— Miss Nightingale certainly gave freely of every hospitality except her own presence!—I eyed embroidered napkins, embroidered table-linens and seat- cushions, even embroidered jam-pot covers! The latter were cunningly stitched with depictions of raspberries, grapes, peaches, apricots, strawberries, currants, or quinces, forsooth, to match the flavours of the preserves they protected."""										
"""Certainly one might expect to find plentiful samples of the ladylike art of embroidery in any upper-class house. Yet I saw no other ladylike arts such as moulded wax flowers, or homemade ruffled silk lamp-shades, or useless little boxes put together out of seashells, or hand-painted glassware, now, did I? Passing into the front parlour, I found no fillet- crocheted antimacassars, but"""										
numerous lovingly embroidered pillows. On the walls I saw framed embroidery										
"""landscapes as well as the usual plethora of family portraits, some painted, some photographic, a few old-fashioned black-paper silhouettes."" ""I gave my attention to the photographic prints—various handsome head studies, some of them in profile like the silhouettes; also some full- length wedding portraits, and a few less formally posed—an old man and a remarkably plain younger woman relaxing in the stonework doorway of a country house, a different old man and a different unlovely woman taking tea at a garden table. I was attempting to guess at relationships when  the fashion-plate young “jackanapes in the knickerbockers” came to find me, offering me a note that was, one might assume, my answer from the unapproachable Miss Nightingale. In delicate violet-hued ink on thin violet-scented paper, it quite contrasted with the missive I had sent upstairs."""										
"""I took it, but before reading it, I gestured towards the portraits on the wall and asked the young man, “Would you be so good—can you tell me who these people are?”"""										
"""“Oh! Most of them, I can’t say, I’m afraid, but those”—he indicated the old couple at the garden table—“are William Edward Nightingale and Fanny Smith Nightingale, Miss Florence Nightingale’s parents. And that”—the rather toad- faced young woman in the stone doorway—“is Miss Frances Parthenope Nightingale, taken at Embley, the family home. Miss Parthe, as she generally is called, is Miss Florence Nightingale’s older sister.”"" ""Scanning the ranks of portraits for a similar toad-like visage, I asked, “Which of these might be Miss Florence Nightingale?”"""										
"""“None of them. She dislikes to have her likeness taken or displayed.” Small wonder, if she resembled her sister."""										
"""And if she was so ill-favoured, small wonder that she had remained a spinster and had become—bitter? A nearly total recluse, in any event, even from her own family."""										
"""After the tweedy young man had gone off again, I looked at the violet- scented note. Written in small and very correct handwriting rather like that of a bookkeeper, it said:"""										
"""I regret that I cannot help you, knowing no one"""										
"""by the  surname of Tupper, nor anything of the matter which perplexes you. I am sorry."""										
"""Sincerely,"""										
Florence Nightingale										
And that was that.										
"""Except, of course, that it couldn’t be. I would not allow it to be."" ""But I left the house willingly and quietly enough, for several intriguing thoughts occupied my mind, thus:"""										
Someone in that house quite liked to embroider.										
"""Although no one, to my knowledge, had made a study of the subject, or written a monograph (as my brother Sherlock, for instance, was wont to write monographs upon cigar-ash, ciphers, and chemical reactions), still, it seemed reasonable to hypothesise that embroidery, like handwriting, might vary from individual to individual: dainty or bold, elongated or round, tight or loose, regular or irregular, depending on the stitcher."" ""The embroidery in Florence Nightingale’s house had a certain winsome, airy simplicity, and I had seen quite similar embroidery before."""										
On the ribbons of a crinoline.										
"""Now, this was odd. Ribbon was an expensive decoration. Embroidery was a labourious decoration. One or the other was generally considered enough; combining the two was an extravagance worthy of a wedding-gown."""										
"""Why, then, lavish such effort upon a crinoline? The roughest and ugliest of underpinnings? Never to be seen, not even by a bridegroom upon his wedding night?"""										
"""Altogether, I felt quite eager to get home and have another look at that humble garment."""										
CHAPTER THE SEVENTH										
HIRED TRANSPORTATION WAS PLENTIFUL ALONG Park Lane. “Cab!” I										
hailed with one gloved hand uplifted.										
"""“Cab!” similarly hailed a gentleman who happened to be walking behind  me, and he strode past me to take the next four-wheeler after mine.""  ""Idly watching as he went by, I stiffened as if I had been struck. Which, in a way, I had. By recognition. I had seen this man twice today already, but he had not been a gentleman then. This tall, broad-shouldered fellow had the accent of a gentleman and the bearing of a gentleman—of course; that was why my eye, if not my conscious mind, had noticed him amongst  the East End crowd! He had not looked quite right, because a common workman does not saunter along with one hand tucked into his belt behind his back, head up as if he has never borne a burden. Indeed, this self- assured fellow belonged here in the Hyde Park neighbourhood. He had got rid of the rough leather belt around the outside of his jacket, and he  had replaced his ridiculous plaid cap with a bowler hat, so that anyone who did not study his boots would take him for a well-to-do merchant in a sack-suit."""										
"""Entering my own cab swiftly and applying myself to the window, I got my first good look at his face—a remarkable one. This man’s features, while perfectly symmetrical, were pleasantly blunt, not sharp and bony like those of most aristocrats. Artistically speaking, his profile was a model of correct proportion, causing some elusive recognition to niggle at me; where had I seen it before?"""										
"""But my main concern at the time was, what to do about him?"""										
"""My cab had driven scarcely a block when I reached a decision. Thumping with my fist at the interior of the roof, I signalled my cab to halt."" ""Exiting, I told the driver blandly, with no explanation, “Thank you, my good man,” paying him a full fare. Then I walked back the way I had come. The other cab, hired by the man who was following me, had pulled up  behind mine, naturally enough. With the corner of one eye I saw Classic Profile, as I was beginning to call him, studiously turned towards the  far window as I walked past."""										
"""When I came to a girl selling posies, I paused to buy myself a nosegay of lily-"""										
"""of-the-valley, for two purposes: to show reason for my sudden apparent change of mind, thereby calming any alarm in my adversary, and also in"										
"order to turn and have a look at his whereabouts. I saw that, while my"										
"cabbie had of course driven on to find another fare, Classic Profile’s cab remained, as I had hoped, where it was."""										
"""Smiling, with my posy to my face as if I were enjoying its fragrance, I walked on a bit farther, then hailed another four-wheeler."""										
"""Paying him in advance “for my own convenience,” as I vaguely explained,  I told him to take me to the British Museum, then stepped in. But just as he slapped his horse with the reins, I stepped out again, by the door on the other side, the street side. Keeping my cab, now rolling away from  me, between myself and the observer whom I considered would be most interested, I retreated behind somebody’s parked carriage to watch."""										
"""As my now-empty cab proceeded down the street, the one occupied by Classic Profile fell in behind it to follow it out of sight."""										
I admit that I then congratulated myself upon my own cleverness.										
"""For a few moments. Until my own more-severe self squelched me. Enola, that is quite enough. What have you accomplished? Evidently the fellow knows where you live, as he followed you from the East End this morning."" ""I had gained a little time, that was all, and in order to use it, I hurried home."""										
"""“Not a word of ’er, Miss Meshle,” Florrie replied to my inquiry concerning Mrs."""										
"""Tupper. Wringing her hands, the gawky girl cracked her protuberant knuckles most provokingly. To distract her, I handed her my nosegay as I rid myself of hat and gloves."""										
"""Then with no preamble I showed her what I had prepared for that purpose: in the cab on the way home, using the paper and pencil I always carry along with other essential supplies in my bust enhancer, I had made several drawings of the mysterious gentleman who had followed me. I had portrayed him with cap, without cap, full face, profile, et cetera. While only crudely talented as an artist, I do have a knack for “capturing” faces in an exaggerated way, especially when I am feeling a bit wrought."" Which I was. Feeling wrought. Quite. What ever might be happening to my poor deaf landlady?"										
“’At’s ’im!” Florrie shrieked immediately.  “The young one wit’ the good										
"""teeth! ’E hain’t got no beard but ’at’s ’im just the same, wot took Mrs. Tupper!”"""										
“Along with the other villain.” I wanted to make sure her story was not changing. “An older man with bad teeth.”										
“Yes’m!”										
"""“And it was the older, rougher brute of the two who hit you?”"" ""“No! No, Miss Meshle!” Florrie had the strong hands of a lifelong labourer, yet her finger shook as she pointed at my drawings of the"										
"bland-faced youth I called Classic Profile. “It were ’im! ’Im ’oo slapped me an’ Mrs. Tupper!”"""										
He had struck a poor old woman?										
"""Good heavens! But to look at him, one would think he was a perfect gentleman. I felt a chill crawl like a serpent down my spine as I realised: What sort of person hid behind his pleasant face?""    ""Still stabbing her big finger at my sketches, Florrie exclaimed, “’Owever’d ye get a hold of ’is picture, Miss Meshle?”"""										
"""I did not reply, for already the girl knew far too much of me; I would certainly not tell her that I had drawn the likenesses myself."" ""“Florrie, lock the doors and don’t let anyone in without consulting me first,” I called over my shoulder as I ran upstairs, for I had urgent business there."""										
"""A few moments later, with the stiff and scratchy bulk of Mrs. Tupper’s antique crinoline nearly smothering me, I sat beside the window in my room so that I could examine the irksome thing in the light."""										
Hmm.										
"""All my emotions funneled into a focussed intensity of interest as I"										
"studied the blue ribbons embroidered with flowers. First of all, I noticed that said ribbons were not sewn to the crinoline firmly so as to cover its seams, but merely basted lightly in place, as if meant to be removed."""										
"""They had been stuck to the crinoline, I surmised, in order to be transported in secrecy to a destination? But why had they been placed on such an ugly—"""										
"""“Of course,” I whispered as the answer dawned on me. “A crinoline does not need to be washed.” Whereas petticoats or any other feminine underpinning might be entrusted to servants and washerwomen, perhaps to be stolen or lost, a crinoline need never leave the possession of its wearer."""										
"""“How very clever,”  I murmured,  my respect  for Florence Nightingale’s"""										
"""intelligence increasing by the moment. To encode the trimmings of women’s unmentionables—this had to be her idea, sprung from a brilliant feminine mind that knew no man would look twice at embroidered ribbon. The two louts who had searched the house had missed it entirely. Even my  brother Sherlock, I expected, might have done no better."										
"Heavens, I had nearly overlooked it myself."""										
"""With such admiration I scanned the—the cryptograms, for so one might as well call the simple flowers embroidered upon the ribbons."""										
"""The gentle reader will perhaps recall that these were starflowers and little round roses in quite a variety of colours—pink, red, yellow,  peach, lavender, white, violet, many more—occasionally interspersed with green leaves. I tried first to see whether I could discern any pattern in the use of colour, and in order to do so, I got out my scissors and detached the ribbons from the crinoline—they were, as I have said, merely basted on, quite simple to remove. The denuded crinoline I tossed into a corner, where it stood upon its own folds, a gauzy white presence, like a ghost of Mrs. Tupper."""										
"""Quickly dismissing this unfortunate thought—one must not  lose hope!—I took the ribbons and placed them in order from top to bottom of the crinoline, that is to say, from shortest to longest, by laying them out upon my bed."""										
"""Arranged that way, they reminded me of lines of print. Indeed, I  thought, the varied colours of the embroidery might be of no significance except to serve as a blind, to keep the casual observer from noticing  that the flowers themselves were not nearly so varied."""										
Five Lazy Daisy petals; the simplest of starflowers.										
"""And a few whipped stitches; the smallest, simplest of roses. And leaves."""										
"""And, occasionally, spaces of blue ribbon untouched."""										
It was the spaces that truly decided me. Why on earth would anyone leave spaces if decorating ribbon with embroidery? The odd display before me simply had to be a code.										
"""But how in the world could letters, words, sentences be encoded with only three symbols: starflower, rose, and leaf or, occasionally, double leaf?"""										
"""Because my leaden head rebelled at the task before me, I forced myself  to think on paper, as I often do, transcribing the embroidered message as symbols. Composing this account upon a type-writing machine as I am now doing, I can"""										
"""achieve much the same effect by using an asterisk to designate a starflower, a"""										
"""period to designate a miniature rose, and a slash to designate a leaf. Couched in this way, the message read:"""										
How very elucidating.										
(I hope that the kind reader recognises this as a despairing attempt at										
humour.) I stared until my eyelids drooped—it must be remembered that I had by this										
"""time gone twenty-several hours with very little sleep or food—but my mind,"""										
"""normally nimble, remained inert."""										
"""Well, I thought finally, the placement of the double leaf at the end suggested that it might signal the completion of—what? A word? A sentence?"""										
And the single leaf?										
"""Perhaps another sort of divider—but that left only star and dot (as I had hazily begun to label the daisy and rose), and how could any message be conveyed in a mere two symbols?"""										
"""Surely I must be missing something. The colours in the embroidery? The French knots? What if there were some variation in the French knots  at the centres of the starflowers? Paper in hand, I got up and lurched to my bed where the ribbons still lay, bending over to peer at the tiny stitches by quite inadequate candlelight, for by now night had fallen."" ""Without conscious volition I did likewise, falling onto the bed, and asleep, all in a moment, still fully dressed and with . . * / . et cetera still in hand."""										
CHAPTER THE EIGHTH										
"""I SUPPOSE FLORRIE MUST HAVE COME IN BEFORE she went home, and,"""										
"""seeing the state of affairs and not wanting to disturb me, she had blown out the candles for the sake of safety. This to explain why, sometime during the night, I awoke to total darkness."""										
"""It was my complaining personage that awoke me, my middle regions knotted in such spasms of hunger as to veto sleep. Groaning, trying to remember who I was and what I was about, I sat up on my bed."""										
Then stiffened.										
Something other than myself was groaning.										
The house. Stealthy and frightening noises issued from it. There. CREAK. Someone was creeping up the stairs.										
"""Danger! cried my every nerve, for never had those steps complained so beneath Mrs. Tupper’s slight weight. I heard another creak as another person stepped on the same cantankerous board. There were two intruders; I could hear their footsteps as they felt their way upstairs in the dark."""										
"""It is amazing how quickly one’s wits, however weary, can react when sufficiently stimulated by terror. Instantly, and as silently as possible, I raked together with my fingers all the ribbons and papers that had lain along with my personage atop the counterpane of my bed. With this precious evidence in hand, I let myself softly down to the floor on the far side of the bed from the door of my chamber."""										
"""Just as I heard the turning of the knob, I crouched flat. Just as my door opened."""										
"""From my hiding place I could discern the spectral glimmer of a  rushlight. I concentrated on remaining still, trying not even to breathe, as the intruders looked in."""										
"""“Bed’s still made up,” one of them said out loud, his deep voice giving evidence of Cockney origins. “Lodger flew the coop, by the looks of things.”"""										
"""“Afraid of kidnappers, and very sensibly so,” said the other dryly. His accent, aristocratic in contrast to the first speaker’s, and his tenor voice seemed to match"""										
"""those of the man I had heard hailing a cab along Park Lane. “Well, as she’s not"""										
"""here, let’s have a couple of candles, shall we?”"""										
"""They helped themselves to two of mine, lighting them with my matches, then exited the room, closing the door behind them."""										
"""I breathed out. Then, quickly but as noiselessly as possible, I got up"										
"from the floor, slipping off my shoes and laying them on the bed. Stocking-footed, I tiptoed to the door and listened."""										
They were in Mrs. Tupper’s chamber.										
"""“. . . blue silk, with the big skirt such as my grand-mother used to wear,” the aristocratic one was saying in languid, faintly humourous tones, as if he were amused to find himself rummaging a poor old woman’s wardrobe. “This ought to be it.”"""										
"""“Oughter, all right. Lemme slit the bottom open.”"""										
"""For a considerable period of time (as befit the considerable circumference of the skirt’s hem) I heard the sounds of fabric being ripped by a knife. Slowly and softly at first but with increasing volume and variety, the man began to curse."""										
“Nuttin’!” he roared in summation.										
"""“Nothing,” the other agreed, sounding more amused than otherwise. “The Grand Pooh-Bah will not be pleased. Did the carrier pigeon say it was in the hem?”"""										
"""“The old lady? She’s no right pigeon, don’t know nuttin’, deaf as a potato, no sense to be got out of ’er. Bird gave ’er a dress is all we found out.”"""										
"""“Well, might there be a paper or something hidden in these ruffles?”"" ""More tearing sounds—that poor, ravaged dress! Mrs. Tupper had certainly been alive when she spoke of it to “the Grand Pooh-Bah,” whoever he might be, and that thought lightened my heart—but what might be happening to her?"""										
"""“Nuttin’,” complained the thug again with an oath. “His Lordship is gonna say we cheesed it!”"""										
"""At the time I thought that “His Lordship” was just another way they referred to the mysterious Mr. X, their leader, who seemed little loved by them."""										
"""The aristocratic voice had become bored. “Well, let’s take the dress back with us, shall we, and he can have a look for himself.”"""										
"""“Right buffoons we’ll look, toting a blithering dress around!” the other"""										
grumbled.										
"""“Well, you didn’t mind toting a blithering dress when the old lady was still inside it.”"""										
"“’At’s different.” “In broad daylight.” ""“Well, ’oo was to see us?”"""										
"""“And who’s to see us now except drunks and hussies?” the other retorted as their footsteps strode towards me, passing my door and heading downstairs."""										
"""I, for one, I thought, easing the door open a crack to catch a glimpse of them against the streetlit stair-well window. They passed it like shadow-puppets in a play, in profile, although one made small impression on me, for I recognised the other all too well—Classic Profile—and perversely, in that tense moment, my mind chose to remember where I had seen that silhouette before. I very nearly exclaimed aloud; good sense intervened just in time to keep me silent."""										
"""I did not, however, possess sufficient good sense to keep me where I was, in safety—not when there was a chance that, by following these men, I might find Mrs. Tupper."""										
"""The moment I heard them leave the house, I sprang into motion, pattering stocking-footed down the stairs and dashing to the door, opening it a crack to peep out. As the younger of the two intruders had implied, there was no traffic in the street at this time of night, but right in front of Mrs. Tupper’s humble abode waited a carriage, and even in the uncertain light of street-lamps and head-lamps, I could tell that it was a very  nice little brougham, drawn by a slender hackney horse, and the wheels  had yellow spokes. I saw no crest, but that did not mean there was none,"										
for the door stood in shadow. For the same reason I could make little of										
"the two men climbing in."""										
"""But my mission was not merely to spy. The moment they had closed themselves into the brougham, I shot out of Mrs. Tupper’s house, trusting and indeed praying that they did not look behind them."""										
"""In fictional accounts of derring-do, you see, the hero quite frequently hangs on to the back of a carriage and, enduring agonising cold, pain, or other rigours of personage, yet unperceived by the villains within, is eventually carried to the place where his lady-love is imprisoned."" ""Determined that Mrs. Tupper deserved no less of me, lifting my skirt— long skirts are a confounded nuisance when one needs to take action—I ran my"""										
"""fastest. The brougham rolled away, for the driver had started the horse, but that"""										
"""amiable creature had not yet broken into a trot when I flung myself at the back of the carriage—the rattling of its metal-sheathed wheels over ruts and stones serving, I hoped, to mask my impact—and swarmed up as if it were quite a wide tree I had to climb."""										
"""There like one of Darwin’s primates I clung. But there was nothing by which to hold on! My feet and fingers searched in vain for any projection or indentation, any ledge or luggage-rack which I might grip. Had I thought about it beforehand, I would have known I’d find none, for had  the manufacturers of cabs and carriages put such accommodations on the backs of them, every street urchin and loiterer in London would have been availing himself of free transportation—but such thoughts came to me too late. Splayed like an overlarge dark spider on far too smooth a wall, I felt myself being dislodged a little more with the brougham’s every jounce."""										
"""Indeed, within less than a block I fell off, landing without dignity upon my posterior. My chagrin, as I sat in the filth of the street and watched the brougham roll away from me, can scarcely be described."" ""Ignoring several laughing “drunks and hussies,” in an exceedingly foul mood I got up and stalked home."""										
"""I spent what remained of the night forcing my outraged personage to accept some bread and cheese, having a wash, changing my dress for a similarly austere and scholarly costume of brown, then finally, at daylight, sitting down to struggle once again with the puzzle presented  to me by the cryptic crinoline. But to no avail; dots and daisies made no sense to me."""										
"""I did, however, have one small remaining clue to pursue."""										
The earliest possible polite hour for social calling found me upon Florence										
"""Nightingale’s doorstep in Mayfair. This time it was the silk-gowned girl who admitted me without demur; apparently just about anyone could simply walk in here. Even at nine in the morning, I saw and heard as I entered, the drawing- room, dining-room, library, and so forth were well populated with visitors partaking of tea and scones, and already I saw “that young jackanapes” running upstairs with a note from somebody."""										
What a very odd household.										
"""But I need not stay long today, I hoped. Straightaway I took myself to the front parlour—unpeopled during breakfast—where the walls were covered with"""										
"""portraits either painted, photographic, or scissored with exquisite precision from"""										
"""black paper, such being the venerable art of the silhouette."""										
"""I found the silhouette I recognised and looked up at it again. Most such cut- paper creations, like the upper-class beings they represent, tend to be a bit grotesque—all nose, or all chin, or both—but this one displayed perfectly proportioned, exceedingly pleasant features. And how often really does one see such classic symmetry? Yes, if it were at all"										
"possible to identify a person merely from his profile, I was about to do"										
"so."""										
"""Small, as were most silhouettes, the artwork hung above my reach. Gathering resolve by thinking of poor Mrs. Tupper, wherever she might be, boldly I betook myself to the dining-room, picked up a chair, and walked off with it. As I had hoped, in this peculiar house no one seemed to wonder what I was doing."""										
"""Positioning the chair, then clambering up to stand upon it, I lifted the silhouette off its hook. Climbing down again and sitting on the chair  that had served as my stool, I turned my find over."""										
"""Yes. Yes, it was as I had hoped. On the brown paper backing of the frame, someone had pencilled the subject’s name."""										
"""It read, The Honourable Sidney Whimbrel, at Embley, Summer 1853."" 1853?"										
Thirty-six years ago?										
This could not be my aristocratic villain after all. How very disappointing.										
"""Where was Classic Profile today? I had not seen him following me at all. Of course, if he was thinking of me merely as Mrs. Tupper’s interfering lodger, having now concluded that I had fled to lodge elsewhere, he might have no further interest in me."""										
"Whatever his original interest might have been. And whoever he was.    So much for my ideas of identifying a person by means of a silhouette. ""Sighing, I arose to return it to its place upon the wall, but just at"										
"that moment a group of chatting persons entered the parlour, and I lost my nerve, slipping the silhouette into an old leather satchel I had with me today, the sort of case in which a student might carry papers. I, however—as the capacity of my bust enhancer had limits—was using it to carry things I felt it would be unwise to leave behind at Mrs. Tupper’s house. Certain ribbons, for instance."""										
"""Exiting the parlour, I found myself facing the library, where the smiling yet"""										
redoubtable Mrs. Crowley held sway behind her desk.										
"""It could do no harm, I realised, to have another go at Florence Nightingale, asking to speak with her. Indeed, I saw no other course of action before me. Yet I felt defeated in advance, as if no possible eloquence of mine could wring the favour of an interview from the Lady with the Lamp on high, and I experienced a leaden reluctance as I walked into the library in order to speak with Mrs. Crowley, compose a note, have it sent upstairs—"""										
"""Blast and confound everything! Confound especially Florence     Nightingale! What an utterly coddled, perverse, and cantankerous bossy- boots she must be! Her cumbersome procedure of communicating via the passing of notes was a culpable waste of time. If the woman had the means she seemed to possess, and if she insisted on being such a stubborn invalid that she could not be spoken with, yet kept her fingers inserted into so many reform-political pies, why, then, she should jolly well arrange to have notes whisked upstairs on little wires—or, no, she should make use of pneumatic tubes like the ones in shopping emporiums. Or, better yet—the absurdity of this thought offered me dark amusement—she should have  a telegraph system installed. If Florence Nightingale insisted on lolling in her bed and sending messages downstairs as if from a great distance, why then, she should tap them out for a teletype machine, dit dit dah dah dit—"""										
"""A shock of revelation appropriately electric in nature coursed through me, jolting me to a halt. “Ye gods in holey stockings,” I cried out loud. “Morse code!”"""										
CHAPTER THE NINTH										
"""UNDERSTANDABLY, NUMEROUS HEADS TURNED. Doing my best to"""										
"""ignore them, with feverish haste, as befit the heat in my cheeks, I made"										
"towards the opposite wall of the library, where I spied upon the shelves the unmistakable stately ranks of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. Seizing volume M, I seated myself at the nearest table—the people already there edged away from me, giving me plenty of room. With trembling hands I found the page:"""										
"""“International Morse Code uses short and long sounds, which are written out as dots and dashes.”"""										
"""Yes! Already, instinctively, I thought of the miniature roses as dots. The daisies—very rudimentary blossoms of five petals; starflowers—had to be the dashes. Grabbing . . . . / . / . . . / . V et cetera from my satchel and referring to the chart in the encyclopaedia (which the gentle reader will find reproduced at the end of this book for the sake of education and amusement), I began to decode— no simple process, as I had to scan the entire alphabet in search of each letter."""										
"""Four dots—H. A leaf to divide it from the next letter. Dot, dash—A. Another leaf. Dot, dot, dot, dash—V. Leaf. Single dot—E. Two leaves?"" End of word! HAVE. Have!"										
"""Quite a while later I had decoded the first five words—HAVE PROOF  WREFORD SELLING SUPPLIES—but the bulk of the message remained before me, and I faced a decision: to sit here spending more hours doing this, while Heaven only knew what might be happening to Mrs. Tupper, or to speak with Florence Nightingale at once? For I considered that I now knew how to achieve this seemingly impossible feat."""										
"""Deciding on the latter, then, I returned my papers and pencil to their satchel and approached the formidable Mrs. Crowley at her desk. This time, when I asked to speak with Florence Nightingale and she handed me the portable desk with its creamy paper and dark blue ink, I smiled and accepted it without demur."""										
"""It cannot with accuracy be said that I wrote upon the paper; rather, I penned."""										
Or drew. Quite quickly and simply I traced:										
"""Blotting, then folding this short and unsigned missive, I handed it over, and, as"""										
"""the young fellow in knickerbockers took it up, I went and stood at the bottom of the stairs."""										
"""In less than a minute, Jackanapes (as I had come to think of him) trotted down again with quite a startled look on his face to tell me, “Miss Nightingale says she will see you. Follow me, please.”"""										
"My every inference concerning the remarkable Florence Nightingale proved ""wrong, as became apparent to me within a few minutes. At the very top of the house, in a spacious chamber awash with light from undraped windows, she awaited me: a plump, sweet, smiling old-fashioned beauty sitting up  in a large bed richly and tidily arrayed with ribbon-edged pillows and silky eiderdown “puff.” Her hair, parted in the centre and smoothed back in the simple manner of her youth, had not yet turned grey! Her lovely, symmetrical face showed scarcely a line! In every way she seemed as radiant as her sunny bedchamber, from which one heard nothing of the many people two storeys below, only birdsong from a back garden one could view through her open windows as if enjoying serene Eden in the midst of  London City."""										
"""Just as serenely Miss Nightingale greeted me. “Please, make yourself comfortable.” She indicated an armchair pulled up to the far side of the bed, pleasantly situated near the windows. With unconcealed interest she studied me as I rounded her foot-board and sat down."""										
"""“I was expecting someone a great deal older,” she remarked, “given this.” She held up the paper upon which I had written, in floral Morse code, S.O.S. “How do you know about my roses and daisies? But first, please, what is your name?”"""										
"""Amazing, the way she exuded courtesy yet spared no honesty and wasted no"										
"time. Her manner allowed me to answer her truly. “Any name I could tell you, Miss Nightingale, I would have to invent, and at the moment I have small energy for dissembling.”"""										
"""She nodded as if this were an ordinary enough answer. Far back from her forehead, as if to show off the impeccable sheen and symmetry of her hair, she wore an odd sort of white kerchief that tied beneath her chin and lavished a"""										
cascade of lace from the crown of her head to the collar of her velvet bed-jacket.										
This singular headgear nodded along with her.										
"""“I can see you are much distraught,” she said softly—I was to learn that she was famous for never raising her voice, not once throughout her life or her years in the Crimea. “It would seem that your trouble somehow concerns me?”"""										
"""“It might,” I said, and without further ado, as concisely as possible I detailed the circumstances of Mrs. Tupper’s abduction, starting with CARRIER PIGEON, DELIVER YOUR BIRD-BRAINED MESSAGE AT ONCE OR YOU WILL BE"""										
"""SORRY YOU EVER LEFT SCUTARI—the thornily handwritten message itself had disappeared along with my unfortunate landlady, but I knew the words by heart. Much as I knew the words that, according to Florrie, the bearded intruders had shouted at Mrs. Tupper: “We know you was a spy for the Bird!”"""										
"""“Indeed, ‘the Bird’ is what they called me, those who opposed me,” responded Miss Nightingale, “and they represented me as a bird-woman in their political cartoons.” She spoke absently, with her back to me, for during my account she had turned around to rummage—I ought to explain  that the headboard of her bed was actually a large, undoubtedly custom- made cubby-hole desk neatly packed with papers of all sorts, and that  upon a green-draped table at her bedside more stacks of papers surrounded an electric lamp—an electric lamp! This was indeed a house of surprises, but I supposed that, driven to reform as she was, she had undertaken the expense so that she could write through the night. I had noticed that her hands, which looked far older than her face, were bent into crescents  from constant writing."""										
"""Finding what she wanted, she turned back to me and showed it: an elderly woman has been abducted by brigands, et cetera, my note from the day before."""										
"""“Yes,” I acknowledged. “I wrote that.”"""										
"""“And I answered it quite truthfully, dear. I simply do not recall Mrs. Tupper.” Reaching into my satchel, I brought forth Mrs. Tupper’s wedding photograph,"""										
which I had carried along with me because of a presentiment that it might prove useful.										
"""Miss Nightingale looked at this, and her gentle mouth formed an O of recognition."""										
“You remember her now?”										
"""“Yes, dear, I do. I had forgotten, because she was not one of my regular couriers; I entrusted her only once, in an emergency, but her message was never"""										
"""delivered, and I have never found out why, or what became of her.”"" ""“So you were a spy,” I whispered, much impressed."""										
"""“The commissioned officers of the army,” she replied sweetly, “fought  me, a woman and a civilian, with rather more passion than they devoted to the Russian enemy. I fought back.”"""										
“But I thought you and your nurses were there to help!”										
"""She smiled rather sadly. “So we were, but the doctors and officers saw my presence as interference, and as a threat to their party-going, picnicking, polo- playing, horse-racing, high old good times. Which indeed it was. I had insane notions that the officers should spend their"										
"days looking after the welfare of their men, and the doctors should"										
"attend to the sick.”"""										
“You mean—they didn’t?”										
"""“The doctors—surgeons—excelled at lopping off the limbs of the wounded, but they never entered the fever-wards, such was their fear of themselves contracting the disease. Without supervision, the orderlies did as nearly as possible nothing, sometimes not even preparing food. So there, all alone except for one another, the sufferers lay in their own filth, their blankets heaving with lice . . .” Miss Nightingale broke off abruptly,  her gaze focussing on me as if she were returning from a tragic past to a rather alarming present. “Tell me, my nameless friend: what ever became  of the message I tried to send to Lord Whimbrel?”"""										
"""I echoed, “Lord Whimbrel?”"""										
"""“Yes, Sidney Whimbrel, a true statesman and my greatest ally.” How very interesting. I had just looked at his silhouette."""										
"""Miss Nightingale continued, “No reform could have been undertaken without him; he had the ear of the queen. He has long since passed away, but his good name remains to be protected. . . . Do you know, where is that missing message?”"""										
"""“If it was the one basted to Mrs. Tupper’s crinoline, I have it in my possession.”"""										
"""For the first time forsaking her erect posture, Florence Nightingale sank back against her pillows, studying me. From the music room on the floor below drifted the pleasant notes of a piano; someone was playing Mozart."""										
"""“You are clever,” said Miss Nightingale in a way that made the statement"""										
neither praise nor censure. “Very well. You have my message that somehow										
"""went astray. I quite want it back, in order to avoid scandal.” “Scandal?”"""										
"""“The reforms to which I have devoted my life are at last agreed upon and under way, with previous animosities forgotten; it would be disastrous were anyone to bring up the past. What would induce you—”"""										
“I care nothing for politics. I simply want to know who has abducted Mrs. Tupper!”										
"""“But I have no idea who that might be. And I quite want to find out, perhaps almost as much as you do, for if she were to tell them about the message—”"""										
"""“Mrs. Tupper,” I interrupted, frustration causing my voice to rise in marked contrast with the ever-level tones of my hostess, “is so exceedingly deaf that it will be very difficult for her to understand what they want of her. She was already deaf when you entrusted her with your ill-fated roses and daisies.”"""										
"""“Oh, dear.” Miss Nightingale’s face showed, very briefly, emotion. “How foolish of me not to realise. But I gave her a card with the address—”"" ""“She can read coarse-hand, with difficulty, but not script.”"""										
"""“Oh, merciful heavens. But I assumed—whatever was I thinking?”"" ""Softening my asperity, I acknowledged, “I imagine you had a great many pressing matters on your mind. In any event, as Mrs. Tupper understood  not a word you said to her, one can assume she did not know what the card was for, or even realise she was carrying a message. The blackguards are currently cutting apart the blue dress you gave her, searching for something on paper. Now tell me, please, who are they?”"""										
"""Florence Nightingale said again, “I don’t know.” “But you could venture a guess!”"""										
"""“As young Lord Whimbrel is just entering the House of Lords, I would guess that his enemies are trying to obtain this artefact in order to embarrass his family name. But equally I could guess that it could be any of the friends or descendants of the officers mentioned in the"										
"communication. Indeed, it would be difficult to name any involved person"										
"who would not like to find it, including myself.” So disarming was this admission that it convinced me of her innocence. “I truly do not know. But I shall find out.” She said this in the matter-of-fact tones of a woman who does as she pleases with her life. “I have already taken steps in the"""										
matter.” “How so?”										
"""“When I received your note yesterday, it worried me. Even though I could not place Mrs. Tupper in my memory, it worried me exceedingly. So bethinking me of a rather well-known private consulting detective, I sent for him this morning. He should be here any moment now.”"""										
"""It was as if invisible hands clutched me by the throat, trying to strangle me. I felt Miss Nightingale watching my reaction, puzzled yet shrewd."""										
“Who?” I managed to gasp.										
"""“You might as well tell me your name, dear, for I shall find it out eventually. The gentleman will oblige me, I am sure. I shall employ Mr. Sherlock Holmes.”"""										
CHAPTER THE TENTH										
MY BROTHER! MIGHT WALK IN AT ANY MOMENT! AND if he should find										
me here—										
"""The kindly reader will please remember that I had been under a great deal of duress, without much rest or sufficient food—but truly, there is no excuse. I should have addressed the problem with logic, reasoning it out. I did not."""										
"""I blush to admit that, simply put, I panicked. With a yelp I shot to my feet, possessing no rational plan of action, only a blind fervour to flee the premises; without a word of explanation or farewell I darted around Miss Nightingale’s bed towards the door—"""										
"""But, quite nimbly, Miss Nightingale threw back her covers and jumped out of the other side of the bed, her plump bare feet below the lace hem of her nightgown engaging the floor as if it were a sprinter’s starting block; in a few swift strides she reached the door before I could do so, and set her back to it."""										
This remarkable event—an invalid blocking my way—surprised me so much  that astonishment trumped my senseless flight and halted me in the middle of the room.										
“Of what are you so frightened?” Florence Nightingale asked.										
"""At the same time I blurted, “What are you doing in a bed if you can walk?” “Heavens, the impertinence of the younger generation!” But her sweet, low"""										
"""voice did not vary in the slightest. “Return to your chair, dear, and I will endeavour to explain.”"""										
"""Feeling a bit abashed, I did so."""										
"""“When I came home after nearly two years of tremendous exertion in the Crimea,” remarked my hostess, tucking herself back into her customary  seat under her covers, “I fell into total collapse, and quite believed I would die.” A sensible enough expectation, as she had been past thirty at the time. “But as the weeks turned to months, indeed, to years, I found myself not only alive, but immersed once more in desperately needed reform, and there was so much important work to be done . . .”"""										
"""As a rebel myself, at once I understood. “You did not care to spare time for the"""										
"""social amenities.” Women of her class were expected to go calling, change for"""										
"""dinner, entertain houseguests, attend the theatre, and so on, ad infinitum, spending the better part of their lives serving, rather like epergnes, as useless, decorative objects."""										
"""“Exactly.” She looked at me in a new way; recognition flew between us."										
"“Now I have told you my secret; you must tell me yours. Why do you conceal your name, and why are you so afraid of Mr. Sherlock Holmes?”""  ""I sincerely wished I could tell her the truth: Sherlock Holmes was my brother whom I adored, there was no one whose companionship I would rather have shared; the famous detective was—discounting my absent mum, Sherlock and Mycroft were all I had by way of family—yet their masculine ignorance caused them to feel that they must take me in charge and imprison me in a finishing school or some such den of feminine tortures. Therefore I dared not, could not, must not let them find me."""										
"""This was what I wished I could tell the wise and gentle Florence Nightingale, but I knew it could not be so. I said only, “I am terrified that he might find out about me.” True enough, although meanwhile, quite desperately my mind cast about for some plausible lie. But at this crisis of all times my imagination deserted me; I could not begin to think what to say—"""										
"""Amazingly, Miss Nightingale supplied for me the story I needed. Very gently she said, “It seems to me that the degree of your concern for, ah, Mrs. Tupper, is perhaps a bit unusual if Mrs. Tupper is indeed merely  your landlady?”"""										
"""Oh, good heavens. She thought I was an illegitimate daughter, protecting my (presumably) aristocratic father from the stigma of dalliance with—"" ""Mrs. Tupper. How absurd. Poor, deaf, penny-pinching Mrs. Tupper, my mother?"""										
"""Yet not so absurd, for truly, my sweet old landlady was more of a mum to me than my own mother—"""										
"""Mum, from whom I had not heard since the incident of the bizarre bouquets, months ago. For whom I dared not search lest I actually find  her and learn her true feelings, or lack of any, for me . . . It was not even necessary for me to lie, for long-suppressed injury in that moment attacked my heart with pain so severe, it assaulted my eyes. To my astonishment I found myself crying. The tears running down my face served as my answer."""										
"""Obviously a practical-minded person, Miss Nightingale responded by reaching into a night-stand drawer where apparently she kept a supply of neatly"""										
"""pressed, lace-edged handkerchiefs, for she handed me one. “Dear,” she offered"""										
"""when I had composed myself a bit, “Mr. Sherlock Holmes is reputed to be the soul of discretion.”"""										
"""But shaking my head, once more I rose to my feet, this time remembering to pick up the leather carrying-case I had brought with me. “You’ll excuse me, I’m sure.”"""										
Very kindly she did so.										
"""Still in a most unmindful frame of mind, I made straight for the stairs."""										
"""A grave mistake. I should have, instead, sought out the narrow back  steps that the servants used, gone down through the hidden regions of the house, and exited by way of the kitchen and the garden. But my senses had quite forsaken me; like a fool I ran straight down the same way I had  come up, through the music-room and the drawing-room to the wide, main stairway, which I began precipitously to descend—"""										
"""“But Miss Nightingale is currently engaged. Moreover, she never sees more than one person at a time,” someone below was saying."""										
"""“She must make an exception in this case,” responded a thrilling, familiar voice."""										
"""Nearly toppling with shock and in my hurry to halt, I clutched the banister and clung to it, feeling a bit weak."""										
“Watson is my right hand in these matters.”										
"""Sherlock! And the good Dr. Watson, of course, both of them at the base"										
"of the stairway, with Jackanapes trying to tell them that only Holmes would be admitted."""										
"""And there, halfway down the stairs and no more than twenty feet away from them, I stood in plain sight and in great disarray of feature, gawping like a dead fish."""										
"""Dr. Watson, thank my lucky stars—for had he looked at me and recognised me as Dr. Ragostin’s “secretary,” that life would have been all over for me—the good doctor did not see me. He stood staring off towards one of the salons as if Mesmerised, perhaps by the presence of Mr. Gladstone."" ""But Sherlock’s gaze, hawklike, flew to me. “Enola!” he cried with the most intense excitement and fixity of expression."""										
"""Because I could not stop looking  at him, yet could not stay, I stumbled"""										
"""backwards up the steps, retreating."""										
"""But my brother Sherlock did not move. “Enola,” he called. “Stop. Wait. Trust me. Please.”"""										
"""But I truly heard his words only afterwards, like an echo in my dishevelled mind as I tore myself away, fleeing like a deer. Back through drawing-room and music-room I sped, and now, belatedly and in blind  panic, I thought of the service stairway—but I could not find it! Past  the grand piano, past the pedestal table, through passageways beyond, turning after turning I opened door after door to discover only antechambers, and I could hear Sherlock’s energetic footfalls behind me, and his voice: “Enola! Confound the girl, where’s she got to?” Evidently he had pushed past Jackanapes to run upstairs after me, and no doubt Watson had done the same, two against one—at the thought I sprinted even faster. I began to hear doors slamming as they followed my course. “Enola!”"""										
"""At this point, as lackwit luck would have it, I blundered upon a winding little stairway—but it led only upward. So up I went, to find myself once again outside Florence Nightingale’s door."""										
"""I opened it, shot into the room, and shut the door behind me."" ""From beneath her silken eiderdown comforter Miss Nightingale asked softly and sweetly, “Goodness. Whatever is going on?”"""										
"""Without answering, but seeing that the key stood in the keyhole, I  locked the door. Then I darted across the room, around the end of Miss Nightingale’s massive bed, to the windows that provided such a lovely treetop-level view of her back garden, at the same time unfastening my belt and slipping it through the handle of my satchel. Blessedly, the force of my fear had pushed me beyond fumbling and shaking to a state of extraordinary dexterity and energy. Speedily I refastened my belt,  thereby strapping my precious baggage to my waist, even as I scanned my prospects for escape. After a hasty look, I chose one window and flung it open wide."""										
"""“Enola!” shouted my brother’s voice right outside the door, and I heard him rattle the knob."""										
"""Miss Nightingale might, of course, have answered him, or got up out of bed, walked to the door, turned the key, and let him in. But she did none of those things. Instead, she lay where she was, watching, I suppose, as  I clambered up upon the window-sill, leaned out, and launched myself like a monkey at the"""										
nearest tree branch.										
"""My fingers found wood; my hands grasped. Three storeys above the ground I dangled, and descent would have perhaps seemed difficult had not worse difficulties goaded me so that I spent no time in contemplation. Like a veritable orangutan I swung, dropped, clutched another bough, dropped again, scrambled down, and so thumped to the ground. There I sped past a vegetable-garden, under a grape-arbour, behind a privy, and through a copse of linden trees to reach Miss Nightingale’s wrought-iron fence. As"										
"I vaulted it, I caught a glimpse of Miss Nightingale—her oddly angled"										
"white headgear was unmistakable—at the window from which I had exited. Though I could scarcely see her expression from the distance, she appeared to observe me with serene interest. I saw no sign of Dr. Watson or my brother."""										
"""Once I had got well away—on the Underground, riding through a tunnel like a"""										
"""passageway to Hell, densely dark and choked with smoke—I finally had time and presence of mind to think."""										
"""Shades of perdition, Enola, now what?"""										
"""At this very moment, I miserably surmised, my dear Sherlock was talking with my dear Miss Nightingale and putting too many twos and twos together. He would tell Miss Nightingale that I was his missing sister. Miss Nightingale would tell him that the missing Mrs. Tupper was my landlady. Heavens. With a helpless, sinking feeling that traversed the whole of my interior, I realised that I could not go back to Mrs."										
"Tupper’s house, for surely Sherlock, as part of his investigation, would find out where she lived."""										
"""Therefore, I now had no home."""										
"""Nowhere to go, really, for if I were followed—I could not really say, after all, where Sherlock was, or more villainously, he of the Classic Profile—certainly I must not chance leading either of them to Dr."										
"Ragostin’s office."""										
So I had no refuge. And no plan. Seldom had I felt so wretched—										
"""Now come, Enola, this will not do."""										
"""The voice within my head was Mum’s, yet mine. Even if I never saw my mother again, she lived on within me."""										
"""You are in danger of losing your freedom, but Mrs. Tupper is in danger of"""										
"""losing her life. After you have found your unfortunate landlady, then you may worry about yourself."""										
"""Taking a deep breath of the Underground’s acrid air, I shut my eyes to the external darkness."""										
Now think. Very well.										
Who had kidnapped Mrs. Tupper?										
"""Any of “the people involved,” Florence Nightingale had said, might wish to secure the message so as to prevent scandal."""										
What “people involved”?										
"""And what turn of events had involved them? Mrs. Tupper had lived for more than thirty years in peace with her crinoline crammed into her wardrobe; why now, suddenly, all this turmoil and trouble?"""										
I had no idea.										
"""However, thanks to the leather case which I had long since freed from my belt, I did still have the message."""										
I ought to finish decoding it. CHAPTER THE ELEVENTH										
I NEEDED A COPY OF THE MORSE CODE.										
"""Where could I go to find one? The British Museum? Pfui. Den of nasty old men. I needed a haven, a sanctuary. I also, badly—as I had partaken of none of Miss Nightingale’s scones—needed something to eat."""										
"""Finally my mind resumed functioning properly, for such a welcome thought occurred to me that I actually smiled. Exiting the Underground at the appropriate station, I sought a secluded corner and tidied myself a bit, then walked out again into London’s streets, looking smartly about me."										
"There was no sign of the pleasant-faced villain who had been following me, or of any other danger."""										
"""Making towards a main thoroughfare, I hailed a cab."""										
"""“High Street,” I told the cabbie, for I did not wish to sing out for all"										
"the world to hear my precise destination."""										
"""A bit later, with a sigh of relief, I walked into London’s, and perhaps the world’s, first Professional Women’s Club. I had not been here before, but I knew of the place by reputation. Just as men’s clubs admitted no women, this small fortress admitted no men. But whereas men’s clubs require new members to be sponsored by the old, the Professional Women’s Club democratically welcomed any female who could pay the membership fee— which was quite substantial enough to keep out the undesirable classes."" ""After writing a cheque and receiving my membership card, I went on in, had a look around at the comfortable appointments of this sanctuary, nodded at a few other members (the younger ones, I noticed, clad much as  I was), ordered tea and sandwiches, and settled myself in the library  with volume M of the encyclopaedia."""										
"""Several hours, more tea, and another tray of sandwiches later, turned out as follows:"""										
HAVE PROOF WREFORD SELLING SUPPLIES										
CONSTANTINOPLE MARKET APPEALED CRUIKSHANKS HALL RAGLAN NO AVAIL OFFICERS CALLOUS OR WORSE PROFITTING WHILE MEN FREEZE STARVE										
DIE   BEG   YOU   USE   INFLUENCE    VR DESPAIRING FN										
"""F.N. was of course Florence Nightingale, and V.R. was Victoria Regina, that is"""										
"""to say, Queen Victoria, but Wreford? Cruikshanks? Hall? Raglan?"" ""“Crimean Conflict,” in volume C of the Britannica, gave me to know that"" ""Cruikshanks was a general in that war, Hall the chief medical examiner, Wreford the army’s remarkably inefficient purveyor, and Raglan the charming but utterly incompetent commander of the whole bloody mess, as exemplified by the Charge of the Light Brigade, hundreds of cavalrymen sent galloping into death due to an error in orders."""										
"""Looking up my suspects individually, I discovered that, like Lord Sidney Whimbrel, they were deceased, beyond my reach to locate or question."" ""What, therefore, was I now to do?"""										
"""I had no idea, for presence of mind was difficult to maintain. Willy- nilly, even though I knew it was most unlikely that he could have traced me here, nevertheless I kept imagining Sherlock Holmes waiting to pounce upon me the moment I set foot outside the door. So disturbing were these thoughts that I could not sit still; I roamed the Professional Women’s Club, the pleasant modern Oriental furnishings of reading-room, card- room, tea-room, and morning-room lost upon me as I fretted, imagining the most grotesque scenarios involving my brother Sherlock, Miss Nightingale, Mycroft, Dr. Watson, Scotland Yard, magistrates in white wigs, and ghoulish boarding school matrons, ad infinitum."""										
"""Enola, this will not do. I needed to think about Mrs. Tupper."""										
"""In order to force myself to do so, I realised, I must make a list."" ""So, taking the nearest seat—on a chintz-upholstered camel-back sofa, very chic, for I found myself in a charming little drawing-room where a few older women had gathered to chat—with paper and pencil in hand I began to write:"""										
Where is Mrs. Tupper? Who is Classic Profile?										
Whose brougham took her away? For what purpose? To speak with whom?										
"""Et cetera. I started out, as I am sure the gentle reader can see, rather stupid,"""										
"""partly because I was so perturbed of mind and partly because of the distraction of pleasant, intelligent voices conversing all around me. For instance, a tall woman in a loose, comfortable “aesthetic” dress, with  her grey hair flowing down her back, was saying, “. . . poor dear Rodney, such a pleasant, well- meaning gentleman, yet so sorely lacking in backbone, while his younger brother—”"""										
"""“One must wonder,” put in a different woman with a laugh, “how the"										
"theory"""										
"""of evolution would account for all the power’s being given to the older brother, yet all the potency to the younger.”"""										
"""“That’s not evolution, dear. That’s our ridiculous laws of primogeniture.”"""										
"""“It’s a shame,” said another of the elderly women, “for Rodney will do almost anything Geoffrey says, and Geoffrey’s strength of character is not always the best of character, or so I have heard.”"""										
"""Why was I listening to gossip of people I didn’t even know, when I so badly needed to think? Yet I could not seem to shut my ears. I knew I should move to another room, yet did not."""										
"""A comfortable, matronly voice was saying, “Yes, his dear mother would be sorely dismayed. But then, good character in that family has generally  run on the female side.”"""										
"""“Well, doesn’t it generally in any civilised family?”"""										
"""There was a ripple of laughter, during which the grey-haired aesthetic woman remarked, “Speaking of good families and characters, has anyone heard anything of Lady Eudoria Holmes?”"""										
"""My mother! Hearing her name spoken aloud in such a comfortable, offhand fashion, I felt such a pang to my heart that for a moment I couldn’t breathe, the world spun, I might faint—nonsense, I never faint; I must not miss a word. Making a great effort to control my speeding pulse and panting breath, I stiffened, eavesdropping intently, although I did not dare to look around at the speakers."""										
“. . . no news of her at all since she disappeared. One does not know whether she is yet alive.”										
"""“Oh, I’m sure she’s alive all right,” put in a third, good-humoured voice. “She’s far too strong minded to lie down and die just yet. I imagine she took off, as the youngsters would say.”"""										
A murmur of agreement sounded all around.										
"""“I hope so,” said the aesthetic woman. “I hope she’s finally had a chance to live her life on her own terms.”"""										
"""These women had been friends of my mother. Friends of my mother! How peculiarly that simple thought, and their proximity, worked upon my sensibilities. Every fibre of my being ached with longing; how I wished I could"""										
"""feel as confidently as they that Mum was alive, and well, and enjoying herself."""										
"""“Perhaps she’s gone overseas,” said the good-humoured woman. “She always yearned to travel.”"""										
I had never known that!										
"""“If so, let us hope she wanders far from the Balkans.” “Trouble there, as always?”"""										
“There and here. I’ve heard that someone is endeavouring to stir up some sort of Crimean War scandal.”										
"""“Again? But why would anyone wish to dredge up that ruck of muck now?” “Why, indeed.”"""										
“I’m sure I have no idea.”										
"""“Is it about Wreford again, perhaps? Any rehashing of that sordid affair would be most injurious . . .”"""										
“. . . today’s progressive spirit . . .”										
"""As they spoke of politics and reform, at last I was able to turn a deaf ear to their conversation, dismiss my thoughts and feelings regarding Mum (I had become quite adept at doing this), and write:"""										
What turn of events started this dreadful business?										
"""Who wanted Mrs. Tupper to deliver her message, and why?"" Who stood to benefit? Enemies of reform?"										
"""To embarrass Florence Nightingale? Who knew that Mrs. Tupper, of all"										
"people, had a message for “the Bird”?"""										
"""That brought me up short, pencil poised in air as I stared at nothing, for at last,"""										
"""you see, I had asked myself the right question: Who knew of the existence of the cryptic crinoline? Given that no regular “carriers” for “the Bird” were involved, and Mrs. Tupper herself evidently did not realise her fine apparel’s significance ."""										
. .										
"""Who knew? Certainly not Wreford, Cruikshanks, Hall, or Raglan! Or their"" heirs."										
"""When a message is sent in secret code, who must have knowledge of it? The"""										
sender. And the carrier—usually. And the person to whom the message is being sent might perhaps know that he should be in readiness to receive it.										
Florence Nightingale knew. I wrote: Miss Nightingale did not remember Mrs. Tupper by name.										
Miss Nightingale hired Sherlock Holmes to find Mrs. Tupper.										
Personal impression: Miss Nightingale was not lying to me. Reasonable supposition: Miss Nightingale is not guilty.										
"""Very well.  If Miss Nightingale had not kidnapped my landlady— and,"""										
"""obviously, Mrs. Tupper had not instigated her own abduction—there remained only Lord Sidney Whimbrel."""										
"""“But he is Miss Nightingale’s ally—or was, because he is now deceased!” I objected to myself aloud, albeit in a whisper. And then, trying to joke, “Unless his ghost—”"""										
"""No joke. I had seen, and indeed I had been followed by, a man sufficiently identical to the late Sidney Whimbrel—or at least to his silhouette—to be his ghost. But, as ghosts did not exist in the rational world of a scientific perditorian, then that man—the one who had burgled  a blue dress in the night, and who, according to Florrie, had carried off Mrs. Tupper—might be Lord Sidney Whimbrel’s kin, most likely his—"""										
Son?										
"""Nonsense, I argued with myself. The Whimbrels were amongst the most honoured and respected of titled British families. The idea of any scion of the Whimbrel family consorting with a common villain to abuse and kidnap my deaf and elderly landlady was preposterous."""										
But who else could it have been?										
And hadn’t Florence Nightingale said something about protecting the Whimbrel family name? And about young Whimbrel having recently been admitted to the House of Lords?										
"""Also, hadn’t the ill-matched pair of miscreants burgling Mrs. Tupper’s house"""										
said something sarcastic about “His Lordship”?										
"""“Oh, my stars and garters!” I whispered, realising that however preposterous it was, yet—yet it had to be. “That’s what started this imbroglio!”"""										
"""A few minutes later, in the Professional Women’s Club library, I found myself"""										
quite thoughtful as I replaced Boyles upon the shelf and pocketed the address I had copied out of that useful reference book upon the members of the peerage.										
"""My thoughts were manifold, astonished, and terrified. Such being the case, I also found myself contemplating with dark amusement the eighteenth-century philosophers, Alexander Pope and his ilk, who insisted that “everything is for the best in this best of all possible worlds”—in other words, if the baby dies, one must tell oneself that things would"										
have been much worse had it lived; if thousands of orphans are starving										
"in poorhouses, surely it is for some higher purpose, and—in my case—if I found myself hunted, on the run, unable to go home and sleep in my own bed, well, then, wasn’t it wonderful that I had somewhere else to go tonight?"""										
"""I had learned, amongst other most interesting revelations, the address of the Whimbrels’ town house, where I quite hoped to find Mrs. Tupper."" CHAPTER THE TWELFTH"										
"""WHIMBREL HALL STOOD, A LORDLY, WHITE, four-towered mansion, in""     ""Mayfair only a block away from Florence Nightingale’s house. At nightfall, still carrying my old brown leather satchel and still dressed in the same dark frock I had thrown on that morning, standing across the tree-lined street in the shadow of a friendly oak to study Whimbrel Hall, I wondered whether its address might have been the one, written upon a card, that Florence Nightingale had given to Mrs. Tupper amidst the horrors of Scutari so long ago."""										
"""The Italianate mansion, with its multiple quoins and brackets, looked temptingly simple to climb. But climbing, I had to remind myself, is not the answer to everything; even if I could scale the fence, evade the inevitable watchdog, swarm up the mansion, find entry, avoid detection or capture, and succeed in locating Mrs. Tupper, what then? I could hardly expect her to clamber out of a tower window and down its wall along with me."""										
Hmm.										
"""Generally I managed to accomplish whatever I wanted either by stealth or by bribery. But in this case—as these people had quite enough money without any help from me—neither would do, and I needed to steel myself  to try something I had never done before."""										
"""I had discovered, you see, from Boyles, that Lord Sidney Whimbrel had been survived by two sons, the elder of whom, and the new Lord Whimbrel, was named Rodney, and the younger of whom was named Geoffrey."""										
"""Now, now, the conversation I had chanced to overhear in the Professional Women’s Club assumed utmost importance in my mind. Rodney? Geoffrey?"										
"Surely not coincidence, especially as the former had recently taken a seat in the House of Lords, providing reason to be gossiped about."""										
"""As Rodney, according to the ladies, was the good-hearted brother, I had decided my best course would be to appeal directly to him for Mrs."										
"Tupper’s release. If the younger, less scrupulous Geoffrey had not despatched her already! While I hated to think that any son of the  revered Lord Sidney Whimbrel could be capable of such infamy, still, once he had kidnapped her and attempted to extract information from her, then— """										
"""Confound logic, anyway. It made my heart ache. And what if it had led me"""										
"""utterly astray? What if I were to sashay up to the door of Whimbrel Hall and either make an utter fool of myself, or—or never come out again?"" ""Enola, you must be quite sure of yourself, or you will never pull it  off. Now go over it all again. One step at a time."""										
"""And as I did so, in my mind, I noticed that I was not the only loiterer on the street. Puttering along, investigating the gutter as if he hoped  to find something of value there, came a genteel greybearded sort of poor soul, not quite a beggar, his threadbare clothing that of a gentleman, cadaverous yet walking with a cane, tall but greatly bent by age, his un- trimmed whiskers hiding most of his face while a truncated top-hat shadowed the rest. One should explain that when a top- hat becomes soiled by the wearer’s perspiration and relegated to the secondhand clothing shops, the crown is removed, the stained part cut away, and the shortened crown reset on the brim. The greybeard’s hat was a testament to this process, having undergone it at least three times."""										
"""Once before, on a freezing winter night, beside a fire made in a washtub"										
"to warm the homeless, I had seen such a hat. Indeed, I had seen the same greybeard, in only slightly different clothes. I recognised this interesting person, and as he approached, my heart began to pound in a most irrational manner, and I stood quite still in the shadow of the oak, terrified lest he see me."""										
"""Luckily, he hitched past me on the opposite side of the street without turning his head my way. Once I felt reasonably sure that he had not observed me, I breathed out."""										
Heavens. What next?										
"""Never removing my gaze from him, I watched as he turned the corner, picking his way along the wrought-iron fence that surrounded Whimbrel Hall."""										
"""Even after he had passed out of sight, I did not move from the shadow of the oak. I waited to see whether I might work him into my plan, meanwhile reviewing my case as I had reasoned it out:"""										
Lord Rodney Whimbrel takes his seat in the House of Lords.										
"He worries (or perhaps is induced by Geoffrey to worry) that a long-ago message his father never received may surface to embarrass him. ""Geoffrey quite plans to handle Rodney’s career however he pleases, perhaps to enrich himself, perhaps simply for the pleasure of wielding power."""										
"""Therefore Geoffrey, evidently a man with low companions and a taste for"" ""illicit  action,   undertakes  (along  with  a  thuggish  friend) to  retrieve  the"""										
troublesome missing message.										
"""Failing to find the message, Geoffrey and friend kidnap Mrs. Tupper."" ""Lord Rodney Whimbrel, a “pleasant, well-meaning gentleman,” is probably quite upset by this turn of events, but “lacking in backbone” has not done anything about it."""										
"""Perhaps I, Enola Holmes, by confronting him, might be able to—"""										
"""Almost as if on cue, the genteel if impoverished greybeard reappeared at the far corner of Whimbrel Hall’s wrought-iron fence."""										
Yes. It was as I thought. Still I waited.										
"""The elderly loiterer, having completed a circuit of the Whimbrel grounds, nevertheless limped back along the front of the property, covering the same ground again. Apparently, as I had suspected, he intended to stay in the neighbourhood for a while."""										
"""I had good reason to feel afraid. Very afraid, indeed, of what I was about to do. Yet, as he approached, a rueful warmth swelled my heart and made me smile."""										
"""Then, straightening myself like a soldier and holding my head high, I stepped forward. Across the street directly in front of the greybeard I strode, swinging my satchel and making sure that he saw me, although I  did not look at him. Progressing up the pavement to Whimbrel Hall, boldly I mounted its marble steps, crossed the flambeaux-lit apron, and knocked at the massive mahogany front door."""										
"""The butler, opening this portal, regarded my solitary and spinsterish merino-clad"""										
personage with rather less favour than he might bestow upon an encroaching insect. He did not speak.										
"""In very decided tones I declared, “I am here to see Lord Whimbrel,” adding before I could be refused, “and I feel quite certain that he will wish to receive me.”"""										
"""The butler’s eyebrows arched dangerously high, but my erect posture and crisp aristocratic accent somewhat reversed his first impression of me.  As an aside, let me state that, while a talented mimic such as my brother Sherlock—or, dare I say it, myself—can ape a lower-class accent with  ease, the opposite—a"""										
"""lower-class person speaking with an upper-class accent—is quite"										
"impossible, or"""										
at least to my knowledge has never been done.										
"""Because of the quality of my aitches, then, the butler condescended to speak. “Your card, miss?”"""										
"""“I carry no card and I bear no name.” This pre-rehearsed line I flung  out with quite an air of drama. “If you will allow me to compose and send a brief note to Lord Whimbrel, he shall see me.”"""										
"""The drama was part of my plan: I maintain that butlers, although they show none, do possess humanity, including curiosity. The man simply had to wonder what I was all about, and therefore stepped aside, waving me into Whimbrel Hall."""										
"""So large was the marble-floored entryway into which I stepped, and so cold, and so wallpapered, as it were, with elk skulls, samurai swords, Egyptian sarcophagi, elephant-foot umbrella-stands, odalisques, and bas- relief cupids and curios of every kind, that it might as well have been a museum. There were no chairs, nor did the butler offer me a seat in the library, but left me standing along with the statuary as he went off to fetch writing materials."""										
"""I took the opportunity to examine the outgoing post that had collected on a silver tray near the front door—and, yes! Amongst the letters I saw some addressed in black-inked, vicious, club-and- javelin-styled handwriting I could hardly mistake."""										
"""The sender: The Honourable G. Whimbrel. Geoffrey. Repressing a shiver, I hoped I would not need to meet him."""										
"""Other letters, from Lord R. Whimbrel, displayed a rather pedestrian hand. Rodney appeared to be—well, one could not say for sure, especially as, being a Lord and Peer, he might have a secretary to address his post for him."""										
"""Hearing the butler returning, I transferred my gaze to a whatnot displaying cups made of ostrich eggs."""										
"""Approaching without a word, the servant presented to me a writing-stand furnished with good-quality paper, pen, inkwell, and its own candle, already lit, to provide light by which to write. But I scowled at these arrangements. “Bring me sealing-wax,” I told him imperiously and also with an air, I hoped, of mystery."""										
"""“Of what colour, my lady?” I heard resentment and retort in his tone— resentment because he knew I was asserting myself over him, for plain candle-"""										
wax would have sufficed to seal the missive. Resentment also because its being										
sealed would prevent him from reading it as he bore it to his master. And retort because colour was symbolic; he was challenging me to show my intentions.										
"""But at the same time, I noticed that I had been promoted from “miss” to"										
"“my lady.”"""										
"""“Why, red, of course,” I told him. “Scarlet, rather than crimson.” And let him make of that whatever he would."""										
"""As he went off to get the wax, I took pen in hand, concentrated on making my script large and strong, and wrote:"""										
"""I have the message for the Bird. Will exchange for Mrs. T. without further ado. If turned away, I will go to the police."""										
"""Leaving this unsigned, I blotted it dry and folded it so as to conceal its content"""										
"""before the butler, returning, had a chance to peek over my shoulder. Accepting from him the stick of red sealing-wax and lighting it at the candle, I dripped a blood-coloured puddle onto the paper’s fold, where it congealed. Wishing I had a signet ring or something similarly dramatic with which to press it flat, I made do with the heel of my hand. When I was sure the seal had quite hardened, I gave the missive to the butler."""										
"""Off he went to deliver it to his master, leaving me standing beneath the"										
"carved wooden stare of several African war-masks."""										
"""For quite some time. I began to worry whether I had perhaps miscalculated. Should I have formulated my message in roses and daisies; would that have made a stronger impression? But no, it would not have  been understood at all, for if Lord Rodney knew anything of the code, he— or, rather, his errand-boy, Geoffrey—would have recognised it on the crinoline."""										
"""I quite wished I knew a bit more of Lord Rodney. Was the namby-pamby handwriting his? Perhaps, because he seemed quite dependent upon Geoffrey."""										
"""Oh, dear. What if he were consulting with that villain right now?""  ""Alas and indeed, such proved to be the case, for when the butler eventually returned and silently beckoned me to follow him, he escorted me into the shadowy, smoke-filled billiards-room—a place no proper lady would ever willingly set foot—and there, across the expanse of the green felt-topped gaming"""										
"""table, I found myself facing both young Whimbrels at once."" CHAPTER THE THIRTEENTH"										
"""LOUNGING WITH CIGARS IN HAND THEY RECEIVED me, leaning upon"""										
"""their cue-sticks, their attitude so insulting that I began to fear Lord Rodney might prove to be just such a villain as his younger brother. So similar were their oval, symmetrical faces and democratically blunt, pleasant features that one might have taken them for twins. I found no difficulty, however, in telling which was which simply by the expression of their eyes; Lord Rodney’s gaze was open and anxious, whereas his brother Geoffrey’s was hooded like a cobra."""										
"""I did not speak for a long moment. To tell the truth, I could not speak; in the terror of the encounter, all the words I had prepared turned  coward and fled my mind like conscripts deserting a battlefield."""										
"""But I managed (I thought and hoped) to keep my spine stiff and my head high, and facing them I tried to glare rather than stare; I hoped my silence therefore seemed like scorn."""										
"""I hoped, also, that I seemed considerably older than my fourteen years. Such usually seems to be the effect of my height, my figure-augmenting underpinnings, and my sharp features."""										
"""Lord Rodney, I noticed, put down both his cue-stick and his cigar at once. And nervously he broke into speech. “So, you are the nameless one who sent in such a mysterious note, of which we understand nothing? I assure you, you are acting under some absurd misapprehension, my lady.”"" ""“Lady? That’s no lady,” Geoffrey corrected his brother with quite a preening air of indifference. “That’s the lodger.”"""										
"""“Aha!” I cried. Bless Geoffrey’s callous comportment and deplorable manners; he infuriated me, and instantly I found my voice. “And you say you know nothing of this affair? How dare you trifle with me.” Although Geoffrey was the one who had aroused my ire, nevertheless I spoke straight to Lord Rodney, as if his younger brother were of no account—so better to irk him. “Kidnapping is a serious matter. Police and press can be hushed up with money, of course, but not Florence Nightingale. How do you think she would react if she knew what you have done? To whom do you think she would address her first hundred letters? And she will know if you do not act promptly to set the situation"""										
"""to rights. She has hired the famous detective, Mr. Sherlock Holmes—”"" ""“Bosh and wind,” broke in Geoffrey. “How can this girl possibly know anything of—”"""										
"""I turned on him. “Florence Nightingale received me in her chamber, as you would know if you had followed me there the second time I visited her. And if you were not so busy abducting a defenseless, respectable, elderly woman—”"""										
“I am not responsible for that!” Lord Rodney cried out in a tone that										
would have been more appropriate emanating from Mrs. Tupper. “I never expected—”										
“Shut up!” Geoffrey barked at him.										
"""But at the same time I looked upon Lord Rodney with a far more kindly gaze, reassuring him, “I quite believe you never expected the matter to go so far, or I would not be here talking to—”"""										
"""“Balderdash!” the hot-blooded Geoffrey exploded. “He told me to get the message any way I had to. So I did what needed to be done. And now he will not let me dispose of the old woman. He thinks we can just let her go, and you, too, I suppose. Well, at least one son of our father has some guts.”"""										
"""With which coarse utterance, in a single moment, not giving even so much warning as a coiling snake might have done, he darted to seize me.""    ""Were it not that the billiards table stood between us, he would have had me. But he needed to go around that obstacle, giving me just enough time to whip out my dagger and menace him with its stiletto-like eight-inch steel blade."""										
He stopped.										
"""“You are not to lay hands on me,” I told him softly between my teeth as he froze, staring, “for two reasons. This is one.” I cocked my uplifted dagger so that the gas-light shone more prettily upon its blade. “The other is that my brother has seen me enter this house, and is waiting  near the gate to see me come out again.” By my fickle luck, arguably either good or bad, this was true; Sherlock Holmes had come here, presumably by following the same reasoning as I had, although arriving at his conclusions a bit more quickly: the greybeard loitering in the street was the great detective in disguise."""										
"""And, I realised rather to my own amazement, I did trust my older  brother, with my life, although not with my freedom. “If I fail to appear within a reasonable time, he will take action, and I assure you, you will find him a most formidable adversary.”"""										
"""Silence followed, and there we stood like a tableau, I with my back to the wall"""										
"""and my dagger raised, Geoffrey poised a mere two paces from me with sheerest evil in his eyes, and Lord Rodney on the other side of the billiards table—I did not of course chance a look at him, but I imagined he might be wringing his hands."""										
Everything depended on Lord Rodney.										
"""And with that thought, the essence of my planned appeal came back to me, and I addressed him with it, although necessarily in a very abbreviated form. “Lord Rodney,” I said levelly, “yours is the title of Lord  Whimbrel; yours is the seat in the House of Lords; yours is the authority.” With my left hand I reached into the pocket centred under the front drapery of my dress, where I had at the ready what I needed. I drew it out and—feeling at the wire hanger on its back to make sure I had it upright, for I could not look away from the dastardly Geoffrey, not even for an instant—I held it up, facing it towards Lord Rodney: confronting him with a small portrait in silhouette."""										
"""The Honourable Sidney Whimbrel, at Embley, Summer 1853."" His father."										
"""“Lord Rodney Whimbrel,” I addressed that peripheral individual, “I show you the likeness of a great statesman. His place deserves to be held by a worthy scion. How much longer—”"""										
"""Geoffrey shouted at him, “You fool, don’t just stand there! Hit her with your stick!”"""										
“How much longer are you going to allow your brother’s regrettable impulses to shame your father’s name?”										
"""He did not answer either of us, but out of the corner of my eye I saw him move, reaching for something. Stiffening, I put the silhouette down"										
"upon the billiards table lest I need both hands to defend myself—but no,"										
"he was not hefting a cue-stick. Rather, he had grasped the bell-pull, summoning a servant— probably the butler."""										
"""Another tall, strong, and most unprepossessing man. Oh, dear.""  ""The billiards-room door opened, and indeed so, I glimpsed a black-"										
"suited, poker-straight looming form, but I did not dare to look away from Geoffrey, not even for an eye-blink to see whether the butler had managed to remain expressionless."""										
"""And how long the moments seemed, how the silence stretched as I held my"" ""ground, waiting to see what Lord Rodney would do."""										
"""I am sure the butler quite wondered the same thing, although his voice sounded no less wooden than usual as he inquired, “You rang, my Lord?”"" ""He addressed Lord Rodney, of course, but Geoffrey burst out, “For God’s sake, Billings, fetch the footmen and a rope so we can quell this ugly wench—”"""										
"""“Silence. I give the orders.” Lord Rodney’s voice wavered; nevertheless, his were the words that mattered. “Billings, kindly escort the Honorable Geoffrey to his chambers and have him remain there.”"""										
"""“What!” Geoffrey roared, turning on his brother and making towards him  as if to attack him much as he wished to attack me. But Billings strode  in and caught him by both arms from behind. Geoffrey shouted and flailed as if he intended to create considerable unpleasantness; Lord Rodney rang the bell again as he retreated. “By all means have the footmen assist you if necessary,” he told Billings, and gesturing for me to come with him,  he exited the room by another door."""										
"""“Do please put that frightening thing away,” he told me the moment we set foot in the corridor."""										
"""I sheathed my dagger, but he seemed unwilling to turn his back on me, having me walk ahead of him as we made our way—upstairs? I had expected he would take me to a parlour or library or some such quiet place where we could sit and negotiate terms, mutually agreeing how to exchange my message for his hostage. But instead, up three flights of stairs we went without a word—wide and gracious stairs in the front of the house, not narrow back ways, so I did not begin to feel afraid until he led, or rather herded, me towards what I realised must be the top of one of the mansion’s white marble towers."""										
Quite a good place for a makeshift prison.										
"""I stopped where I was, turning to look at Lord Rodney’s face."""										
"""And he halted, submitting to my scrutiny. Although very pale, and rather down in the mouth, he seemed composed. “If you wish me truly to be a Lord Whimbrel worthy of my father’s name,” he said, sounding not particularly strong but not too unsteady, either, “then you must agree to trust me."										
"Done?”"""										
"""And indeed, what was my alternative? To run away, leaving Mrs. Tupper to her fate? I hesitated only a moment before I answered. “Very well."										
"Done.”"""										
"""With a weary nod he beckoned me forward to a narrow, heavy dark door. He"""										
produced a large key and turned it in the lock. Opening the door and standing										
"""aside, he motioned for me to enter."""										
"""I confess that I did not immediately walk in. Rather, I paused in the doorway of a small room furnished with numerous gas-lamps and sconces of candles, by the shining light of which I saw, not necessarily in this order:"""										
Colourful chintz curtains.										
A brass bed plump with pillows and quilts. A vase full of fragrant apple- blossoms.										
A plate of fresh strawberries.										
"""A young maid sitting in a straight chair with her hands folded, waiting,"										
"as if something else might be needed."""										
A table upon which stood a stereopticon. Beside an overstuffed easy chair.										
"""In which, propped up by pillows as she viewed the clever three- dimensional images that had been provided for her amusement, sat Mrs. Tupper."""										
"""My feelings can scarcely be imagined, so strong and strangely mixed were they—relief so great that it made me weak in the knees, but also astonishment, irrational outrage, and a bit of envy—nobody gave me fresh strawberries or a stereopticon! Altogether I found myself nearly overcome by disorderly emotion which I had no time to discipline, for at the  moment I saw Mrs. Tupper, she also saw me. With a mynah-bird cry she tottered to her feet and toppled towards me. I hurried forward lest she fall. She hastened to fling her arms around my waist."""										
"""“Miss Meshle!” She was weeping, and so, I must admit, was I, and the maid rose, curtsied, then exited the room, no doubt at Lord Rodney’s silent signal. He stood just inside the door, waiting for the tempest to calm, with the look of one who has forgot his umbrella."""										
"""“Oh, Miss Meshle,” iterated Mrs. Tupper, “oh, Miss Meshle, I’m that glad to see you, I am, Miss Meshle!”"""										
"""Patting her head, which came barely to my shoulder, I noticed that she wore a crisp, new white house-cap with lavender ribbons, and a new lavender dress to match. Speaking wryly in an attempt to dry out my feelings, I said, “It appears you have not been mistreated.”"""										
"""“Eh?” She put her head up like a turtle, a hand behind one ear."" ""Instantly all seemed so annoyingly normal that I calmed. I sighed deeply, then"""										
"""bawled directly into her ear, “You’re all right?”"""										
"""“Oh! Yes, thanks to this’un.” Still tearful, she bobbed towards Lord Rodney. “’E’s as kind a gennelmun as ever wore spats. But t’other’un, ’e wants to throw me in the river!”"""										
"""“I have never in my life worn spats. And t’other’un,” said Lord Rodney with an undertone of dark humour in his voice, “will be on a ship to Australia within the week.”"""										
"""Mrs. Tupper, who of course could not hear him, cried, “I been that scared, I ’ave!”"""										
"""“Poor dear.” Of course she had been terribly frightened, not knowing who these people were, or what they wanted, or which one was older, or younger, or more likely to get his way. “There, there.” Muttering  soothing inanities even though I knew quite well she could not hear me, I patted her humped back, speaking over her head to Lord Rodney. “An excellent idea. Your brother’s talents will be much more useful and appreciated in such a wild place,” I told him quite sincerely."""										
"""But I am afraid I cannot remember what he replied, for when I directed my eyes towards him, I saw a face looking in at a window behind him."" ""This was most startling, considering that we stood in a room four storeys above the ground. Equally startling was the face, its sharp nose actually pressed to the glass, making a white triangle amidst a wrack of grey hair."""										
"""Yet, rather than jumping and screaming, I smiled. Indeed, I gave my brother Sherlock quite an impudent look, imagining how he must be hanging on to the stonework outside. I dearly wished to stick out my tongue at him, but I could not, of course, or Lord Rodney would have seen."" ""Instead, I inquired of that nervous person, “Might we go downstairs?” “Of course, Miss Meshle—that is your name, is it not?”"""										
"""It was not, strictly speaking, so I replied sweetly, “There would be no point in my denying it.”"""										
"""“Mrs. Tupper possesses in you a remarkably loyal lodger, Miss Meshle. By all means, let us go where we can all sit down. Shall I order some tea?”"""										
“That would be delightful.”										
CHAPTER THE FOURTEENTH										
"""THE NEGOTIATIONS, IN A RATHER GRANDIOSE sitting-room, took some""     ""time. Lord Rodney required a great deal of reassuring, yet at the same time I wished him to give Mrs. Tupper a great deal of money; those two objectives were difficult to reconcile or to accomplish simultaneously."" ""I tried to reason with him. “Mrs. Tupper has no idea of your name, or your brother’s name, or who you are, or where she has been taken—is this not so?”"""										
"""He looked ruefully upon the old woman, who, much comforted by tea and my presence, had dozed off in her blue velvet armchair. “Yes, I believe that is correct.”"""										
"""“Doubtless you have noticed, also, that she is somewhat hampered in her ability to communicate.”"""										
“True.”										
"""“And she has not a vindictive bone in her body. Once safely home, with some recompense for her trouble, she will say nothing more of the matter. No East Ender ever willingly speaks to the police.”"""										
"“What about you? In your note you said you would go to the authorities.” ""“I said what I felt was necessary at the time. Surely, now that you have met me, you understand that I can be discreet.”"""										
“To the contrary. I understand mostly that you can brandish a dagger.” “Just as any sensible woman would do under the circumstances.”										
He eyed me doubtfully. “You’re no ordinary woman.”										
"I fear I rolled my eyes. “I have trusted you. Now you must trust me. Once you have provided for Mrs. Tupper’s financial security in her old age—” ""“You want no money for yourself?” he interrupted suspiciously. “None, I assure you.”"""										
“And you will tell Florence Nightingale nothing of any of this?” “Nothing at all. I see no reason why I should ever set foot in her gracious home again.”										
“Then you promise me no ill consequences?”										
"""“None at all.” For myself, I was thinking bitterly, the consequences would be far worse than any he faced: because Sherlock knew of Mrs."										
"Tupper, I would have to give up lodging with her and find myself a new place at once—unless, as might very well be the case, Sherlock were to catch me tonight, immediately upon my exit from Whimbrel Hall! All too aware that he was waiting for me, from time to time I caught a glimpse of him skulking outside the sitting-room windows."""										
"""Focussing with difficulty on Lord Rodney, I continued. “Certainly you can see that I bear you, personally, not the slightest ill-will. And for the house of Whimbrel, I cherish only the greatest respect. Indeed, I share Florence Nightingale’s high opinion.”"""										
"""And so I wheedled for a considerable length of time. Eventually, after much coaxing and many promises, a rather handsome sum changed hands—I am sure that poor Lord Rodney believed, despite all my protestations to the contrary, that he was bribing me for silence—and I reached into my satchel and presented His Lordship with a tangle of blue ribbons embroidered with posies."""										
"""Understandably, he seemed taken aback. “What’s this?”"""										
"""“The missing message,” I told him, “and here is the way I worked it out.” I handed him the papers on which I had pencilled the code. Then I stood and walked over to touch Mrs. Tupper upon the shoulder, awakening her as I told Lord Rodney, “We should go now. I would be obliged if you would summon your carriage.”"""										
"""This was very necessary in order for me to escape my brother, for certainly Mrs. Tupper could not run or climb trees with me."""										
"""“I will do nothing of the sort.” Lord Rodney sounded all too much as if he had thoroughly discovered he was indeed Lord Whimbrel; worse, he sounded peevishly wrought, as if he had expected something more to his"										
masculine taste for his money. “You are going nowhere. Sit down and										
"explain this nonsense.”"""										
"""“It’s not nonsense.” Although I should have known better, his temper caught me off guard, and my tone heightened to match his. “It has cost me a great deal of trouble, and—”"""										
"""And Heaven only knows how things would have gone if it were not that, just then, a considerable crash resounded upstairs, and shouts, and the sound of feet pounding down the stairway, and a great deal of hubbub throughout the house as Geoffrey Whimbrel thundered into view, pursued by two footmen in buckle-"""										
"""shoes, stockings, knee-breeches, red jackets, and white powdered wigs. It would"""										
"""make an interesting study, why decorative servants must dress like the upper classes of the prior century. Most impractical. One footman’s wig had been jolted askew and the other’s flew right off as they pelted after his younger lordship. At the foot of the stairs the butler, Billings, joined the pursuit, bellowing unnecessarily, “He’s broken out, my Lord!”"" ""Already Lord Rodney had jumped up and darted towards the large, museum- like entryway through which his younger brother was running for the door. I also leapt up to go see, and Mrs. Tupper, at her best hunchbacked  speed, did likewise. Indeed, shrieks and yells both feminine and  masculine sounded from the direction of the kitchen and other nether regions as the entire household came running to observe the fracas."										
"Seemingly out of nowhere a crowd assembled."""										
"""The two footmen, the butler, and Lord Rodney attached themselves to Geoffrey like bulldogs to a bear, but even their combined strength failed to halt his charge for the door. They clung to his coattails and clawed  at his shoulders as he lifted the latches and turned the bolts, flinging the door open—"""										
"""Clearly visible in the firelight of the flambeaux, on the marble apron just outside the door waited a remarkably tall, angular personage with a great deal of unkempt grey hair and beard."""										
I was perhaps the only one not totally astonished.										
"""Except, apparently, Geoffrey. Enraged or desperate beyond such petty sentiments as surprise, he took no pause. Tearing free of the annoying people clinging to his back, he hurtled out the door as if to run right over the greybeard."""										
"""But he ran instead into what might as well have been a bolt of  lightning. Most swiftly and unexpectedly the tall man slashed a chopping blow with his edgewise hand, one long leg extended—alas, I cannot fully describe the manoeuvres which I believe, from references in the writings of Dr. Watson, demonstrated the Eastern martial art of “jujitsu,” nor can I detail the single- handed combat that landed Geoffrey on his back with the greybeard atop him, nor could I take pleasure in my brother’s prowess or in the astonishment of the onlookers observing a thin old man knocking down a strong young aristocrat. I retain only the most fragmentary memory of any of this, for I did not stay to watch."""										
"""Instead, taking Mrs. Tupper by the hand, I hurried her towards the back of the house, intent on getting out there while everyone, including Sherlock— especially Sherlock—was busied at the front."""										
"""Although Mrs. Tupper kept up the  best pace she could, it was not good"""										
"""enough, so I actually caught her up in my arms, slung her slight weight over one shoulder, and ran with her through hallways and serving-ways that were utterly deserted. So also was the kitchen. Out its door and up the steps of its area we scuttled, making a hasty escape through the usual maze of outbuildings— summer-kitchen, tool-shed, dog-kennel, carriage-house—until we reached the back gate, which stopped us but a moment; such safeguards, meant to keep intruders out, are simple enough to open from the inside. Still carrying Mrs. Tupper—although I confess I"										
was starting to breathe quite hard—I trotted along a back lane until I										
"achieved a street."""										
"""There, under the murky glow of a gas-lamp and out of sight of Whimbrel Hall, I felt a bit more secure. Setting Mrs. Tupper down on her own two tottery feet, I stooped to examine her for signs of damage. “Are you all right?” I asked—softly, for I did not wish to attract the attention of the neighbourhood by shouting—I hoped Mrs. Tupper might be able to read my lips."""										
"""She seemed to. “Miss Meshle,” she quavered, her voice as well as her eyes rather watery, “I’m so everlastingly obliged to you, I—”""    ""“Shhh.” I had to look away from her, for in that moment it truly smote me, with great pain to my heart, that I must leave her."""										
"""And then I, Enola, whose name backwards spells “alone,” would be even more lonely than ever, for Mrs. Tupper—my deaf, elderly landlady who served the most dreadful suppers—had nevertheless been, sometimes, like a mother to me."""										
"""Oh, Mum. Where are you?"""										
"""It was the worst thing I could have thought, for my mother . . . more  and more, although I tried to deny it, I felt irrationally certain that I would never see Mum again, that she had succumbed to old age, and the Gypsies, illiterate nomads, had left her somewhere in an unmarked grave."" ""Stop it, Enola."""										
"""Barely holding back tears, I took Mrs. Tupper’s arm and hurried her  along the street until at last, seeing a cab approaching, I hailed it."" ""Inside the concealment of the four-wheeler I handed over to Mrs. Tupper the money I had extracted from Lord Rodney Whimbrel, shushing her astonished protests; I needed to feel sure that she would never go hungry or lack for means. I saw to it that she tucked the hundred-pound notes deeply into her bosom. When we arrived at her lowly hovel in the East End of London, we both got out, but I"""										
ordered the cab to wait.										
"""Leaving Mrs. Tupper downstairs to exclaim over the ruin of her home, I ran up to my room—soon no longer to be mine anymore—where I thrust into a carpet-bag only my most compromising or irreplaceable possessions: my  wig, facial emollients, and various other essentials of disguise, my  extra dagger, all my money, and the little handmade booklet, decorated with watercolour flowers, which had been my mother’s last gift to me."" ""Running downstairs again with baggage in hand, I found Mrs. Tupper— showing more intelligence than I had credited her—waiting by the door, clutching to her bosom the carved wooden box that contained her meagre lifetime of documents and mementos, with the most forlorn look on her face."""										
"""“Miss Meshle, don’t leave me ’ere alone, not after wot’s ’appened,” she implored. “I don’t feel safe ’ere an’ it ain’t ’ome to me no more. Take me wit’ you.”"""										
"""Time seemed to spin in a circle, then come to a teetering, off-balance halt."""										
Take her along? If only my mum had taken me along with her! But where—in what way—how could I possibly—										
"""Explosively my mind countered its own consternation: Never mind the difficulties. Blast and confound Sherlock Holmes and Mycroft Holmes, too, hang any danger they might pose to me, I simply could not leave Mrs."										
"Tupper."""										
"""Time whirled into motion, centred now. “Come along then, quickly!” Her crumpled old face cleared as I took her by the hand. Together we scuttled to the cab."""										
"""“Where to now, miss?” the driver asked."""										
"""Quite cheerfully I told him, “I have no idea!” Although surely I would, soon enough; I had learned to trust the peculiar workings of my heart and mind. “Just drive west.”"""										
"""Thus, forth we sallied into London City."""										
"""MAY, 1889"""										
"""“I CANNOT CREATE EMBROIDERY ANYMORE,” Florence Nightingale""     ""remarks with nostalgia but no self-pity as she fingers a quantity of blue ribbon, winsomely stitched with five-petalled daisies and little"										
"round roses, that her visitor has deposited upon the counterpane of her bed. “My hands can no longer manage a needle.” Indeed, they are misshapen from constant writing, which is far more important. Needlecraft is a frivolous pursuit. Such are the thoughts of the once-famous Lady with the Lamp as she turns her placid attention to her visitor. “You say Lord Rodney Whimbrel wishes me to have these. Why?”"""										
"""Standing over her—for he has not been invited to have a seat; even though she has engaged Sherlock Holmes to help her, still, his intrusion must not last long— the famous detective responds, “Lord Whimbrel hopes in this way to convey that the matter is ended completely, and that he remains your most loyal admirer.”"""										
“And he wishes me to forget how the matter began?”										
"""“Although Lord Rodney takes responsibility, Miss Nightingale, still, one must consider his brother Geoffrey the instigator. And he shall instigate no more. His other choices being only worse, he has agreed to take ship  to the colonies.”"""										
"""“Then I shall withhold judgment, and hope that Lord Rodney shows increased moral fortitude in the future.”"""										
"""While speaking, thoughtfully Florence Nightingale scans the tall, lean, angular man of action, so exceedingly vertical in her serene horizontal surroundings. In his “Miss Nightingale” she has heard gallantry, yes, but also a hint of condescension. She had not intended to speak to him of a certain tall girl of action, but . . ."""										
"""Thrusting the embroidered ribbons to one side, she gestures for Sherlock Holmes to take a seat. When he has done so, she tells him in her  customary soft and gentle manner, “Doubtless you wonder why I did not attempt to stop your quite remarkable sister from taking such precipitous departure a few days ago. No”—as he scowls and flings up one gloved hand, trying to halt this conversation—“let me speak. While I had no idea,  until you told me so, that— Enola, is that her name?—Enola is a mere  child of fourteen—”"""										
"""With far less than his usual courtesy, Sherlock Holmes interrupts. “It would not matter if she were, as she appears to be, twenty-four! Would you let your daughter, if you had one—”"""										
"""But Florence Nightingale interrupts the interruption, sweetly and apparently"""										
"""tangentially: “I knew your mother, you realise, Mr. Holmes.”""    ""Evidently he does not realise, and the revelation staggers him somewhat, for he sits back in his armchair and watches the invalid—a remarkable woman, with her smooth face, her sleek hair parted in the old-fashioned manner and shown off by her peculiar headgear—he studies Florence Nightingale from beneath troubled brows."""										
"""“Eudoria Vernet Holmes. A thoroughly admirable woman,” the Lady with the Lamp speaks on, “totally and efficiently committed to reform. She chose  to espouse women’s rights, whereas I turned my attention to the plight of the sick and wounded, but we quite respected each other. Have you had any word from her, Mr. Holmes?”"""										
"""“You are aware that she is missing, then? No, I have heard nothing.” He hesitates only an instant before asking, “Have you?”"""										
Ah! He did care for his mum.										
"""“I am sorry to say I have not. Perhaps she has run off to the Crimea?” Mocking herself slightly, Florence Nightingale speaks lightly yet with care. “Being who I am, I would hardly restrain any woman, no matter how tender her years—”"""										
"""Sherlock Holmes leans forward, cutting her off with a gesture like a"										
"jujitsu chop. And, interestingly, he speaks not of Enola Holmes, but of Eudoria. “My brother and I had quarrelled with Mother. Now, looking back, it all seems like a great deal of nonsense,” he says bluntly and with unexpected bitterness. “Still, there was no reason for her to—”"""										
"""“But can you not see,” Florence Nightingale interjects with greatest soft- spoken authority, “that from her point of view, there was every reason, obviously? And your sister, also, a few days ago, seemed to have the most compelling reason for her actions.” Miss Nightingale hesitates, then decides to say it. “She seemed quite terrified of you.”"""										
"""Although he does not actually wince, she sees how her words strike like a blow. Leaning his forearms upon his knees, he clasps his hands and looks down at them."""										
Patiently Miss Nightingale waits for some other response.										
"""“I cannot deny it,” he says at length, “yet I cannot by any application of my considerable mental abilities understand why she fears me so. I would never do anything to harm her, and she knows that, I’m sure; she has from time to time displayed unmistakable affection for me.”"""										
A good nurse knows when to be silent and let the patient talk. Florence Nightingale waits some more.										
"“My brother Mycroft and I want for the girl only what would be in her own ""best interests,” Sherlock Holmes goes on. “Some further education, at a good boarding school—”"""										
“Ah!” Suddenly and completely Florence Nightingale understands. “You have threatened her with boarding school!”										
"""Sherlock Holmes raises a puzzled, almost boyish gaze to her face. “Why, what ever is the threat—”"""										
"""“Good heavens, didn’t your mother tell you?” Although, actually, his ignorance is no more extensive than that of other males. “The sufferings of an upper-class girl in a typical boarding school are only slightly  less severe than those of an imprisoned criminal upon a treadmill. I  speak of painful physical rigours that result invariably in deformity and sometimes in death.”"""										
"""The great detective sits with his mouth ajar, evidently at a loss.""     ""“My good man,” Florence Nightingale tells him gently, “please forgive me for being quite unconscionably blunt and, indeed, coarse, but I am an old woman, and as such, I will say what others won’t: thumbscrews are  merciful compared with a fully tightened corset.”"""										
"""It is a word never spoken in polite society, much less in mixed company. Hearing it, the man of action raises both hands in protest, and a flush  of pink can be seen in his aquiline face. But Florence Nightingale perseveres."""										
"""“Why,” she challenges his intellect, “do you think fashionable women constantly faint? And die of the slightest ailment, much less childbirth? Or occasionally fade away and succumb even before reaching childbearing age? It is because they are compressed at the waist in a practise no more civilised than the binding of a Chinese woman’s feet! Far beyond comfort, beyond health . . . small wonder your sister fears you. In fleeing boarding school, she is literally running for her life.”"""										
"""“But—but it simply cannot be as bad as you say,” exclaims Sherlock Holmes. “Tradition—elegance—generations of ladies have survived—”"" ""“One might with similar logic say that traditionally, generations of soldiers have survived wars,” remarks Florence Nightingale. But then, with the diplomatic instinct that has seen her through a lifetime of dealing with authoritative males, she turns the conversation mildly aside. “I have never had a child, but I have had a sister, and I quite sympathise with your concern for yours,” she assures her visitor. “Perhaps Mrs. Tupper can tell you something of her whereabouts?”"""										
"""From downstairs the piano resounds, filling the house with the majestic measures of Beethoven, and although neither the great detective nor the"										
"great reformer can see Mrs. Tupper right now, both know where she is:"										
"sitting directly"""										
"""beside the instrument, entranced and ecstatic because she can actually hear the"""										
music.										
"""With a bleak chuckle Sherlock Holmes leans back in his chair. “No, there is nothing to be got out of Mrs. Tupper, as I’m sure Enola knows quite well. The sheer audacity of the girl,” he goes in, in tones of mingled wonder and exasperation, “never ceases to astonish me. For her to venture here when a mere block away at Whimbrel Hall I was still casting about  for her trail, for her to drop off the old woman as if she were an expected visitor—”"""										
"""Smoothly Florence Nightingale puts in, “But I am delighted to care for Mrs."""										
Tupper in her old age.”										
"""“Very good of you, I am sure,” he retorts rather abrasively, but then he corrects his tone. “Would you also be so good as to send for me if my sister comes here to visit her?”"""										
"""Florence Nightingale scarcely hesitates before she speaks, seemingly not addressing his question. “You have an older brother, I recall.”""  “Mycroft. Yes.”"										
"""“Also a bachelor, a recluse, a misanthrope, indeed, a misogynist, and quite set in his ways?”"""										
"How on earth does she know so much? The great detective scowls. “I flatter myself that I have some small influence over him.” ""“Nevertheless, Mr. Holmes, his is the legal authority. Now, how would I know if your sister were to come here?” says Florence Nightingale with sweetest, wide-eyed innocence. “I never go downstairs.”"""										
"""Sherlock Holmes, who also possesses the instincts of a diplomat, knows when an impasse has been reached. Without further comment he rises. “Miss Nightingale, I am delighted to have met you,” he tells her, standing by her bedside to take one of her half-crippled hands and bow over it. “If I can ever be of further service, please do not hesitate to call upon me.”"" ""His thoughts, however, as he takes his leave, are far from delighted. As he stalks past Mrs. Tupper in her rocking-chair by the piano, Sherlock Holmes considers that Enola is sure to visit that elderly woman."										
"Therefore, by deploying the Baker Street Irregulars, his troop of street urchins, to watch the house, he has a very good chance of catching his sister, confound and bless the daredevil, oh- so-clever girl—"""										
But then what?										
Is there possibly any truth to the distressing and indelicate things that Florence Nightingale has told him?										
"""If Mum were here, might she tell him likewise?"""										
"""Ye gods! Is he losing his world-famous mind, wishing now that he could ask"""										
"""for the advice of his mother, which he would have utterly disregarded a year"""										
ago?										
"""His mother, whom he has been unable to locate? Confound everything! Why did that eccentric woman run away? And why did his sister then flee as well, and why does she continue to do so? Perhaps—and this is a very difficult thought for the man of action to admit—perhaps he has been going about things all wrong, thinking he must take Enola in hand?"""										
For her own good?										
"""As he exits Florence Nightingale’s gracious home, for the first time the great detective’s brilliant mind asks what, really, his sister’s own good might be. Boarding school, education in the social graces, introduction  to polite society, preparation for marriage—however proper and traditional, still, are these necessarily the best plans for Enola?"" AUTHOR’S NOTE"										
"""Concerning the Crimean War and Florence Nightingale, I have done my best"										
"to"""										
"""adhere to documented facts. However, there is no evidence that Florence Nightingale engaged in secret communications; her use of code is my own invention. After the war, the famous nurse did spend the rest of her life as an invalid. Why so is a question hotly debated among scholars. As no one is certain what caused Florence Nightingale’s peculiar conduct, I  took the liberty of giving it my own interpretation. She did indeed live in Mayfair, with a view of Hyde Park, although my description of her  house is necessarily imaginary, as the original is gone. While it is true that Florence Nightingale was quite influential in politics and affairs  of court, Lord Whimbrel and his sons are fictitious characters."""										
###										
